podGPT

Giving up on “the rest of the language”

In this essay, the tension that Benacerraf identifies for theories of mathematical truth is used as the vehicle for arguing against a particular desideratum for semantic theories. More specifically, I place in question the desideratum that a semantic theory, provided for some area of discourse, should run in parallel with the semantic theory holding for the rest of the language. The importance of this desideratum is also made clear by means of tracing out the subtle (though significant) implications of its rejection.

It is often held that natural language deserves a homogeneous semantic theory, so that some central concept (such as truth-condition, inferential role, or expressed non-cognitive attitude) is taken to be key to directly or indirectly explaining the nature of meaning as it applies to the entire language. One could go so far as to say that it is a desideratum on a semantic theory for some area of discourse that it run in parallel with the semantic theory holding for the rest of the language. Paul Benacerraf, for instance, invokes just such a desideratum (the first ‘concern’) in his famous discussion of mathematical truth: 

It is my contention that two quite distinet kinds of concerns have separately motivated accounts of the nature of mathematical truth: the concern for having a homogeneous semantical theory in which semantics for the propositions of mathematics parallel the semantics for the rest of the language, and the concern that the account of mathematical truth mesh with a reasonable epistemology. It will be my general thesis that almost all accounts of the concept of mathematical truth can be identified with serving one or another of these masters at the expense of the other. To be fair, Benacerraf admits that a semantic theory for the rest of the language has yet to be offered. But this does not appear to detract from his
case:
I am indulging here in the fiction that we have semantics for " the rest of language," or, more precisely, that the proponents of the views that take their impetus from this concern often think of themselves as having such semantics, at least for philosophically important segments of the language.
In this essay, I argue that it is also a piece of fiction to suggest that there is even a "rest of the language" to be contrasted with controversial areas of discourse such as mathematics. That is, I place in question the desideratum on a semantic theory, for some area of discourse, that it run in parallel with the semantic theory holding for the rest of the language. So, while I do not target here the prospects for a specific homogeneous semantic theory, I do aim to undermine the suggestion that any such approach is the default kind. My case begins by reminding the reader that the sort of tension identified by Benacerraf arises for other important areas of discourse as well. As a preliminary step, then, consider in more detail the principal vehicle of this tension. Recall the quotation from Benacerraf, above. Much as we regard a sentence like "The cat is sitting on the mat" as depicting a particular state-of affairs by way of terms referring to a particular cat and mat and the predicate that they fall under, we should expect a similar story to hold for sentences such as "2+2=4". This is the first "master" mentioned by Benacerraf. Or, as Benacerraf expands the matter: Perhaps the applicability of this requirement to the present case amounts only to a plea that the semantical apparatus of mathematics be seen as part and parcel of that of the natural language in which it is done, and thus that whatever semantical account we are inclined to give of names or, more generally, of singular terms, predicates, and quantifiers in the mother tongue include those parts of the mother tongue which we classify as mathematese. Whatever semantic account is accepted must be compatible with a plausible explanation of how mathematical knowledge is possible this is the second "master" mentioned by Benacerraf. However, devising an epistemically plausible truth-conditional semantics for mathematical discourse proves problematic owing to the fact that (unlike, say, cats sitting on mats) we fail to bear causal relationships to the (prima facie) truth-makers for mathematical statements: namely, numbers qua abstract objects. If knowledge requires bearing at least some sort of causal relationship to the objects of knowledge, it becomes entirely unclear how we can have knowledge of numbers to which we bear no causal relationships whatsoever (While Benacerraf's criticism of Platonistic accounts of mathematics relies on a causal account of knowledge, the point can be adapted to others as well especially any naturalistic account. For example, Field has argued that the true thrust of Benacerraf's criticism lies in our inability to explain how we are reliable mathematicians. See Melanson, for instance, for further discussion of Field's emphasis on reliability.) So, if numbers are the sorts of things to which we refer, it remains a mystery how we can have any knowledge of them. But if we ignore this representational feature when providing a plausible epistemology for mathematics, it is unclear that we have the materials in place to say that such sentences are in the business of expressing truths in the same way as ordinary claims. Hence, any attempt to provide an account of mathematical truth (and its corresponding semantic basis) cannot obviously meet both demands made on it. This is what shall be referred to as Benacerraf's problem. Much as for mathematical discourse, there is a deep tension facing modal discourse, whose discussants include Richards, Lewis, and Hawthorne. The first source of the tension is the desideratum that it would be preferable for our talk about modality or possibility to be given a semantic theory in parallel with that provided for the rest of the language (e.g., a truth-conditional approach). The second source of the tension for modal discourse springs from the desideratum that, for any semantic account of modal talk, it should allow for a plausible view of modal knowledge.
To appreciate the difficulty of meeting both demands, consider the problem as posed for Lewis's theory of modal realism.(  Hawthorne points out that the same concerns about the epistemology of modality arise whether possible worlds are construed as concrete or abstract.
 It does not help matters to posit some sort of "special faculty" (e.g., modal intuition) that puts us in the right causal relationship to possible worlds. The positing of such faculties proves problematic in several respects, including that it is highly implausible that we would have acquired such special faculties by way of evolutionary processes. To his credit, though, Lewis makes a case for denying that causal acquaintance is always required for knowledge. For a critical discussion of the available epistemic options (including a critique of Lewis's own reply), see Hawthorne's handling of the topic) Given the broad appeal of possible world semantics (which is a truth-conditional account) for cashing out statements of modal truths, and given that any account of truth requires a corresponding account of truth-makers, Lewis embraces the commitment to the existence of other worlds, maintaining that they serve as the truth-makers for claims about contingency or necessity. Moreover, possible worlds, according to Lewis, are best understood as spatio-temporally and causally isolated from one another. The problem is raised by the fact that, while knowledge appears to require some causal relationship between an agent and the object of knowledge, possible worlds are causally isolated from one another. As such, we cannot, as inhabitants of one world (what we call the "actual one"), bear any causal relationships whatsoever to other possible worlds including the sorts required for possessing knowledge.* In short, much as for Benacerraf's problem for mathematics, we are left wondering how knowledge of possibility is possible.
Just as for our talk of mathematics and modality, there is a similar tension facing ethical discourse. Once again, the first source of the tension is the desideratum that we should provide a semantic account of ethical discourse in parallel with that given for the rest of the language. Providing such a semantic theory for ethical discourse appears to involve reporting on moral truths about what is right or wrong, good or bad, or virtuous or vicious.
Furthermore, whatever sorts of facts serve as the semantic values for ethical statements, it appears that they must have a particular sort of normative import: as Mackie puts it, they must possess a sort of authoritative prescriptivity. Such facts must intrinsically motivate rational agents to pursue or not pursue particular aims, so that reasons for action are somehow built into them. And it is precisely this normative feature (if it is represented by talk about ethics) which problematizes accounting for our knowledge of ethical matters a point serving as the second source of the tension. As Harman puts the matter, observation does not obviously play the same role in confirming or disconfirming ethical principles that it does for scientific principles Mackie makes a stronger version of the point as part of his case against the existence of objective moral values.
He cautions that, "none of our ordinary accounts of sensory perception or introspection or the framing and confirming of explanatory hypotheses or inference or logical construction or conceptual analysis, or any combination of these," could yield knowledge of such values. So, while Mackie did not express his point as a tension like Benacerraf's problem (so much as supporting an error-theoretic approach to ethics), the materials are clearly in place for doing so.
Taken on their own, the three highlighted areas of discourse (just discussed) make up a significant stretch of the language. However, it is likely that additional areas of discourse many, perhaps also face Benacerraf-style concerns. To cite one class of examples, other areas of discourse taking abstract objects as their subject matter (e.g., set theory) face the same sort of concern as Benacerraf discussed regarding our talk of numbers. To cite another class, there are additional (and quite pervasive) modal locutions in our language for expressing subjunctives and dispositional properties; and it is perfectly plausible that the kind of problem facing possible world semantics (within Lewis's modal realist system) could afflict these other locutions as well. To cite a final class of examples, other (also quite pervasive) areas of discourse expressing agent-motivating norms are likely to face the same sort of tension facing our talk of ethical matters. So, while at least three major areas of discourse face a distinctive sort of tension (each involving a contrast with the rest of the language), there is also a potential glut of additional tensions. In the next section, an implication is drawn from facing this host of problems simultaneously, rather than in their usual fashion considered each, in isolation, in contrast to the rest of the language. Before proceeding, notice that Benacerraf's problem is often framed by commentators as a dilemma, where each of the "masters" to which Benacerraf alludes constitutes a separate horn But by avoiding framing the matter as a dilemma here, it is emphasized that each
"master" serves instead as desiderata to be satisfied by any area of discourse.
And by focusing on only a single tension (as Benacerraf does for mathematics), it is natural to contrast that particular area of discourse with the rest of the language. Benacerraf's problem, for instance, shows that there is something peculiar about the language of mathematics unlike the rest of the language for which both desiderata (or "masters") appear to be satisfied uncontroversially. But, again, several additional parts of the language and perhaps many, many more are subject to problems like the one Benacerraf identifies for mathematics they are equally peculiar. Each problem on its own appears plausible, due in part to the strong appeal of providing an account of meaning that parallels that provided for the rest of the language.
But while striking the contrast between one area of discourse and the rest of the language is plausible, repeatedly striking the same sort of contrast puts pressure on the idea of the rest of the language with which Benacerraf initially contrasts mathematics. In short, I do not aim to merely the remind the reader that problems like Benacerraf's arise for many areas of discourse; but rather to grasp the implication of facing many such problems simultaneously for the notion of the "rest of the language" featured in each such problem.
To better see this, consider an analogy with trying to identify what rule is in force, if too many (would be) exceptions are cited. Recall the old adage "The exception proves the rule." The basic idea is that the stated exception to a rule (e.g., "Free parking on weekends") implies that a general rule (permitting of exceptions) is in place (e.g., "Parking is not free"). Notice, though, that with too many cited exceptions, there is little left to which a general rule can apply. For instance, if the exceptions cited are "Free parking on weekends"
', and "Free parking on Mondays"
', and "Free parking
on Tuesdays and Thursdays", there are few days of the week left to which a general rule such as "Parking is not free" can apply, much less enough to deem it a general rule (that permits of exceptions). So, while exceptions can prove that a rule is in place, too many (would be) exceptions can place in doubt whether there is any sort of general rule in force in the first place.
The situation is similar for maintaining that there is a notion of the rest of the language to be contrasted with any particular Benacerraf-style problem.
Each such problem presupposes that the rest of the language behaves in a particular way, such that it deserves the same sort of semantics. But now it looks like there are many parts of the language for which it is an open question how best to capture the relevant semantic properties, yielding the compounding result that there was never much to the notion of the rest of the language to begin with. So, again, while striking the contrast between one area of discourse and the rest of the language is plausible, repeatedly striking the same sort of contrast becomes increasing untenable. In light of so many problems like the one identified by Benacerraf, we should give-up the expectation that there is much to the notion of the rest of the language with which we began.
The same conclusion can also be made evident using diagrams.

Again, the three areas of discourse featured here make up a significant stretch of the language. Though there is no clear means of measuring how much of the language remains to be placed in contrast with each featured area of discourse, it nevertheless becomes less convincing that "the rest of the language" is something to be placed in strong contrast to each such discourse.
Furthermore, this result is strengthened once we acknowledge the range of additional areas of discourse that might also face problems akin to the one identified by Benacerraf. Therefore, it is entirely unclear that there is any sense of "the rest of the language" to deserve such a semantic theory. As such, we should give up on the desideratum that we provide a semantic theory for any area of discourse in parallel with that holding for the rest of the language.
In short, the fiction Benacerraf helps himself to (that a semantic theory has already been given for the rest of the language) takes on the status of one fiction embedded within another: namely, the fiction that there is a "rest of the language" in the first place!
Implications of compounding tensions
If the case made thus far proves convincing, there is little left of the notion of the rest of the language. Where does this leave us? An immediate implication is that labels such as "Benacerraf's problem" and "Benacerraf-style problem" turn out to be misnomers. After all, the troublesome areas of discourse are no longer so troublesome, if we are freed from the desideratum to provide a homogeneous semantic theory. Of course, there remains a deep tension between a truth-conditional approach to many areas of discourse (on the one hand) e.g., mathematics, modality, and ethics and furnishing a plausible epistemology (on the other). But the initial motivation for providing a truth-conditional approach across the language is now lacking. Framing Benacerraf's concern about mathematics as a dilemma, an implication of the case made thus far is that the dilemma is no longer convincing, since its first horn has been revealed to be little more than a nub. By itself, this is a significant result, given the importance of Benacerraf's problem for the philosophy of mathematics and the importance of similar problems for modal and ethical discourse (and perhaps many others).
To illustrate the import of our conclusion, consider first Lewis's reaction to Benacerraf's problem (framed here as a dilemma and addressed with an eye towards its impact on modal realism):
I think it is very plain which horn of Benacerraf's dilemma to prefer. To serve epistemology by giving mathematics some devious semantics would be to reform mathematics. Even if verbal agreement with mathematics as we know it could be secured-and that is doubtful the plan would be to understand those words in a new and different way.
The idea seems to be that we should not abandon a homogeneous semantic theory, for anything short of assimilating an area of discourse with the semantic account "obviously" holding for the rest of the language counts as some variety of reform effort. Lewis's misgivings about providing a "devious semantics" highlights the deep-seated appeal of providing a single, uniform semantic theory for the entire language. Indeed, those misgivings motivate, without much in the way of additional support, his drawing the conclusion that any attempt to deviate from a truth-conditional approach involves reforming what we mean by the targeted expressions.
To be fair, some efforts to provide a non-truth-conditional semantics aim at reforming the relevant practice. However, we should avoid over-generalizing this point. For example, inferentialists characteristically maintain that the notion of inferential role (i.e., the use of symbols in reasoning) is explanatorily basic to semantic accounts. Those following Dummett conclude that accepting inferentialism also requires reforming our logical and mathematical practices by replacing classical logic with in-tuitionistic logic (which differs from classical logic in that it lacks the law of excluded middle). Drawing this conclusion, though, is not inevitable. Brandom, for example, is a prominent inferentialist who also accepts classical logic. It is not essential to one's providing an alternative semantic framework that one distorts how the subject matter is understood only that one captures the semantic features of our talk about the subject matter by way of a different explanatory model. Just as expressivists about ethics, for instance, should be charitably understood as attempting to provide the semantic account that best underwrites how we actually make ethical judg-ments, we should expect the same to hold for many accounts of mathematical discourse. So, while there are noteworthy efforts to reform our practices (e.g., Dummettian inferentialists favoring intuitionistic logic), not every alternative semantic account is designed for such a task. A reply like Lewis's appears to beg the question against alternative semantic frameworks, by presuming that some variety of truth-conditional semantic theory must be on the right track for the rest of the language and so, the target language is obviously in the business of representing states-of-affairs(Frank Jackson's comment that "Although it is obvious that much of language is representational, it is occasionally denied.. I surmise that it is through conflating the obviously correct view that much of language is representational with various controversial views."). But that is precisely what is at issue.
Admittedly, many areas of discourse might appear to be in the business of representing matters. As such, any attempt to explain the meanings of the targeted expressions by non-truth-conditional theories might seem to ignore important semantic appearances (as in the semantic function that they appear to perform). An initial counter, inspired by (non-cognitivist) expres-sivists, is that semantic appearances can be deceiving. According to such advocates, while ethical judgments appear to be in the business of depicting ethical states-of-affairs, they actually perform an altogether different func-tion. Now, whatever the virtues or vices of expressivism, the point about semantic appearances is well taken. Indeed, this point suggests a related one: while truth conditional approaches often respect some of the semantic appearances of the expressions of interest, they also ignore others indeed, those which usually serve as the footholds for alternative semantic theo-ries. For example, (non-cognitivist) expressivists about ethics often cite the motivational feature of ethical statements that ethical judgments such as
"Murder is wrong" motivate rational agents-as something for which truth-conditional approaches cannot provide an adequate account since beliefs (as the mental states that possess truth-conditions) are, by themselves, motiva-tionally inert. At least since Hume, it has been hard to ignore that ethical judgments perform a motivational role for us something that many non-truth-conditional approaches capture but often seems lacking from compet ing truth-conditional accounts. But, of course, it is also difficult to forget the retort that ethical discourse nevertheless appears to be in the business of conveying ethical truths.
What we can gather from this exchange is that it is difficult to save all of the semantic appearances: often, one can only save some semantic appearances at the expense of saving others a point not lost on anyone wrestling with Benacerraf-style problems. This point helps to highlight another implication of the case made in the previous section: without the desideratum in hand that any area of discourse should be given a semantics in parallel for the rest of the language, we do not have the antecedent motivation for privileging some semantic appearances over others. That is, grounds are now lacking for the insistence that some sorts of semantic appearances (such as the appearance of possessing truth-conditions) must always be saved at the expense of others.
This point promises to have a subtle, but significant, effect on how we theorize about the nature of meaning. To see this, notice first that it is often seen as a prima facie strike against a semantic theory (for an area of discourse) that it fails to accord with the dominant (truth-conditional) semantic tradition. This is certainly the case for expressivists about ethics and modal discourse 
And it is often seen as a prima facie advantage of a non-truth conditional semantic theory that it can capture the appearance of the targeted sentences expressing truths. This is an advertised advantage, for instance, of fictionalist approaches to mathematics, modality, and ethics. As Benacerraf puts the point:
Any departure from a theory thus homogeneous would have to be strongly motivated to be worth considering. Such a departure, for example, might manifest itself in a theory that gave an account of the contribution of quantifiers in mathematical reasoning different from that in normal everyday reasoning about pencils, elephants, and vice-presidents. 
But without the desideratum (tied to semantic homogeneity) in hand, no additional advantage or disadvantage should be conferred on a semantic theory (for a specific area of discourse) simply because it accords with the dominant semantic tradition (taken to hold for much of the language). Of course, other reasons might be furnished for accepting a homogeneous semantic theory.( One such reason-likely held by Benacerraf is that only a truth-conditional semantic can be given that any part of the language. (Of course, that sort of reason invites replies from competing semantic traditions such as inferentialism and expressivism.) Another reason, also suggested by Benacerraf pertains to quantifiers and the suggestion that a semantic theory deserves a univocal account of them. I do not dispute that here. Rather, I use Benacerraf's case (and those like it) to put pressure on a particular reason for semantic homogeneity; and that reason alone, if my case succeeds, is not sufficient to insist on a univocal semantic theory for quantifiers.) But those reasons deserve independent consideration, and fall outside of the aim of this essay. So, while rejecting the desideratum of interest does not conclusively undermine the possibility of providing the same sort of semantic theory (truth-conditional or otherwise) for each area of discourse, one less reason is available in support of doing so. Indeed, it appears that providing any such account might be achievable only in an altogether more piecemeal fashion. Whether this opens up an altogether more pluralistic approach to theorizing about meaning depends on the details of the distinctive efforts of any such project.( One basic strategy for a more pluralistic approach to meaning is to identify cases to which the theory, initially taken to hold for the rest of the language, does not plausibly apply. For instance, Wittgenstein aimed to show the various roles language can perform, each of which break with a descriptive function. Prominent candidates include our talk of psychological states, ethics, knowledge, mathematics
, and necessity. Quite generally, the presence of intuitive counterexamples to (or scope problems for) a targeted homogeneous theory-truth-conditional or otherwise undermines the theory's advertised range over the entirety of language. This sort of strategy resembles one used to support alethic pluralism. One such pluralist about truth, Lynch, also comes close to providing an argument from scope problems for the case of meaning when he extends his brand of alethic pluralism to semantic matters) And whether any such approach can be devised that avoids its own distinctive problems remains to be seen.
However, one road block to any such approach has been removed.

One such problem is inspired by the Frege-Geach problem facing non-cognitivist ex-pressivists (e.g., Geach and the problem of mixed compounds and mixed atoms facing alethic pluralism namely: "How can we provide a single semantic value for mixed expressions like 'It is contingently the case that adding together numbers is evil' if the meanings of its constituents are best explained by different, distinct semantic theories? But, again, this and related questions fall well outside of the scope of this essay, especially given that we have not argued for any such pluralistic theory here, but only against one reason for semantic homogeneity. 
 
In concluding this essay, it should be stressed that no attempt here has
been made to show that no semantic theory can successfully apply to the entirety of the language. Rather, the aim here has been altogether more
humble: I have argued that there is little to the notion of the rest of the
language to be contrasted with various areas of discourse; and, as such, there is no default stance towards theorizing about the nature of meaning. That a theory accords with the one given for other areas of discourse—or perhaps many—does not lend weight for or against its own acceptance. Though this point is subtle, as discussed above, it’s import for deciding various issues is significant—one that allows for leveling the playing field as it pertains to semantic theorizing.



Reconciling Semantic Dispositionalism with
Semantic Holism

Dispositionalist theories of mental content have been attacked on the
grounds that they are incompatible with semantic holism. In this paper, I resist important worries of this variety, raised by Paul Boghossian. 
I argue that his objections can be avoided by a conceptual role
version of dispositionalism, where the multifarious relationships between 
mental contents are grounded on the relationships between their
corresponding, grounding dispositions.

It is commonly maintained that semantic holism problematizes attempts to reduce contentful mental states to non-intentional episodes. One prominent argument to this eﬀect is provided by Paul Boghossian, who focuses on semantic dispositionalism. original version of the argument reacts to the meaning scepticism
that Kripke attributes to Wittgenstein. Similar reasoning is echoed by Boghossian in his criticisms of Fodor’s theory of mental content.) According to semantic dispositionalism, that one possesses a contentful mental state is to be disposed to (e.g.) exercise recognitional or discriminatory capacities under appropriate conditions. And according to semantic holism, the content of a mental state is determined, at least in part, by its relationships to a potentially infinite number
of other contents. Boghossian argues that, in order to accommodate semantic holism, the semantic dispositionalist must cite appropriate conditions that include the absence of the near-infinite number of factors that could aﬀect the content of a mental state. But citing such factors unacceptably employs circular reasoning. His concern is that, given the demands of semantic holism, it is misguided to emphasize the importance of appropriate conditions for an account of content. I argue that Boghossian’s objections do not succeed against a conceptual role version of dispositionalism, where the content of a thought is  determined by the uses, under appropriate conditions, of the relevant expressions in the language of thought. But in replying to Boghossian’s objections, I do not offer a full-fledged account of semantic dispositionalism. On this matter, three additional comments are in order. First, for brevity’s sake I focus only on dispositional accounts of mental content, leaving accounts of linguistic meaningaside.2 Secondly, though other objections to semantic dispositionalism are well-deserving of attention, I shall ignore them for present purposes—this includes any other objections raised by Boghossian. Finally, I leave aside other objections to semantic holism, as well as other objections to conceptual role semantics. My primary concern is to argue that, contrary to Boghossian's efforts, semantic holism does not, as a general matter, problematize semantic dispositionalism (of the variety that relies on content-bestowing conditions).
In the next section, I offer an initial characterization of semantic dispositionalism as well as how it is taken to be problematized by semantic holism. Quite generally, semantic dispositionalism is the thesis that having a mental state with a particular content depends on possessing the relevant disposition-e.g., a disposition of a recognitional, discriminatory, or inferential variety.
However one characterizes (or otherwise qualifies) the relevant disposition, such an account succeeds only if it satisfies two requirements: first, the account adequately describes one's mental states (accommodating the essential properties of intentional states) and, secondly, it does so without appealing to intentional facts. The first requirement voices the need for descriptive adequacy, where an appeal to one's dispositions successfully fixes that about which one is thinking, e.g., the account properly fixes the extensions of the constituents of a contentful mental state. (Saul Kripke famously argues that no dispositional account can satisfy this requirement because doing so involves distinguishing correct from incorrect instances of a contentful mental state, and dispositions are inadequate to this task.) The second quirement signals the need for a non-circular account of content: since semantic dispositionalism is aimed at explaining intentional facts such as mental content in non-intentional terms, appealing to other intentional facts some other representative medium-would defeat its original purpose.
The above requirements are arguably satisfied by a version of the thesis where dispositions to establish symbol-world relationships are essential. (For the sake of argument, I assume that the relevant symbols are those belonging to a language of thought.) That one has a mental state about magpies, for instance, is reducible to one's being disposed, under appropriate conditions, to apply a particular term in the language of thought to all and only magpies.
The following highlights the essential features of any such account. For a subject S:
(SW) S has a mental state with content F if and only if S possesses a
corresponding disposition x, manifested under conditions C, to apply an expression e (in the language of thought) to all and only F's.
In broad strokes, the first requirement (above) is met by appealing to S's disposition x to apply an expression, say, to a particular kind of thing or state-of-affairs; the content of f is given by the information expressed by S's disposition x. But not just any disposition to apply e will serve to fix the content of a mental state, though, for some applications of e might be erroneous. To accommodate this sort of concern, (SW) cites S's dispositions that manifest under appropriate conditions C: under C, S cannot mistakenly apply e. In this respect, x serves as the basis for the correct usage of e, and hence fixes the content of F (3Conditions C' are oftentimes referred to as 'Type 1 Conditions' in order to distinguish between two kinds of conditions: those under which one acts correctly and those conditions under which one acts mistakenly. In part for stylistic reasons, I shall often use the expression 'appropriate conditions' (or a variation of this) to mean 'Type 1 Conditions.' In any case, for present purposes, I remain agnostic as to the best theory of such conditions.). However one cashes out appropriate conditions, the second requirement (above) for an adequate dispositionalist approach is also satisfied, so long as the content of any given mental state is determined by one's dispositions and the conditions appropriate to their manifestation, where these facts are themselves characterized without appeal to intentional facts.
Jerry Fodor has lodged complaints against appeals to such content-bestowing conditions, as cited in, targeting that they do not lend to appreciating the robustness of content: thoughts about, say, magpies are caused by many things besides magpies while still being thoughts about magpies. According to Fodor, this point is not accommodated by appeal to content-bestowing circumstances, because according to any such an account, tokenings of a symbol can have only one sort of cause (i.e., the kind of cause that fixes its content). But again, a tokening of magpie symbols can be caused by many things besides the presence of magpies under appropriate
conditions.
While I have doubts about the strength of Fodor's particular criticisms, Boghossian raises a version of this concern-based on the holistic nature of belief fixation-which appears especially troubling. According to semantic holism, the content of any given mental state is determined, at least in part, by its relationship to other mental states.(Mental contents may be understood as being holistically governed in either of two respects. First, mental states might be holistic as a matter of interpretation- of attributing propositional attitudes to someone in that understanding what someone is thinking about requires making sense of their actions or utterances against a larger pattern. Secondly, mental states might be holistic as a matter of constitution, in that the content of a mental state is determined, at least in part, by its relationship to other mental states. Boghossian is clearly interested in this second sense.) For example, while the belief
'Lo, magpies' is directly prompted by the presence of magpies, this belief could be prompted by a great many other factors as well. Beliefs about the appearances of various birds could do so. Indirect evidence, such as the season and location, or even the presence of bird droppings might prompt the belief. Much more distant factors, such as making a strange association, could even play a role in determining that one believes that magpies are nearby.
In this respect, the dependence of the content of one belief on the contents of other mental states is arbitrarily robust: the content of a mental state is dependent on the contents of an open-ended number of other mental states, perhaps even a near-infinite number of such configurations.(Boghossian is concerned with the arbitrary robustness of mental states, at least insofar as possessing one belief can be affected by holding others. There is reason to think, though, that the emphasis on belief fixation is just one instance of content-determination.
For Boghossian's worry is raised for dispositionalist attempts to fix the content of mental states (as well as fix the meaning of expressions in a public language). That one belief might affect possessing another belief, according to the semantic holism, plays a role in determining the content of each of the beliefs involved. As such, I make no significant distinction between speaking of belief fixation and of determining the content of a mental state; the former is just an instance of the latter.) As Boghossian puts the matter:
Since..
there looks to be a potential infinity of such mediating background clusters of belief, a non-semantically, non-intention ally specified optimality situation is a non- semantically, 
non-intentionally specified situation in which it is guaranteed that none of this potential infinity of background clusters of belief is present. But how is such a situation to be specified? What is
needed is precisely what a dispositional theory was supposed to
provide: namely, a set of naturalistic necessary and sufficient conditions for being a belief with a certain content.... |If there is to be any sort of reductive story about meaning at all, it cannot take the form of a dispositional theory. 
The semantic dispositionalist can accommodate this arbitrary robustness only if she eliminates (or otherwise explains) the effects of these indirect factors. And doing so requires citing the absence of a near-infinite number of factors (that could affect picking out F's) in the specification of C. Otherwise, we would not be able to isolate those factors pertinent to the content of one's belief about magpies.
There is some ambiguity as to the difficulty facing the semantic dispositionalist at this stage in the argument. Alexander Miller admirably
disambiguates the situation by interpreting Boghossian as offering two distinct objections, both of which proceed from the above considerations. The first objection shall be called the Infinity Objection. The worry is that the factors built into C are potentially infinite in number, so that semantic dis-positionalism succeeds only if one can cite all of the factors contributing to C. *Miller attributes the Infinity Objection to Boghossian 1991. But such a task is untenable; the prospect of specifying C, and thereby adequately describing one's mental states in terms of dispositions, might appear as nothing more than an article of faith.(It has been argued by McManus that the Infinity Objection makes the same basic assumption as any other ceteris paribus clause: namely, that any such clause is essentially open-ended. According to McManus, the strength of the Infinity Objection relies on this more general problem for a disposition qualified under a ceteris paribus clause, and is not uniquely motivated by holism. The success of my reply to the Infinity and Circularity Objections in §3 (below), though, suggests otherwise.)
The second objection shall be called the Circularity Objection.(Miller attributes the Circularity Objection to Boghossian) The worry is that we can only specify the appropriate conditions C under which
one is disposed to believe, say, 'Lo, magpies' by building the absence of a near-infinite number of interfering beliefs into C. But doing so requires
appealing to intentional facts (e.g., other beliefs) which are not allowed to the semantic dispositionalist since the proponent of such an account aims
to reduce intentional states such as contents and beliefs to non-intentional
states. In other words, the only way to avoid the Infinity Objection is to employ circular reasoning, thereby inviting the Circularity Objection.(Though Miller takes the Infinity and Circularity objections to remain somewhat independent, I disagree, especially for the presentation of the argument in Boghossian)
Admittedly, Boghossian raises what appears to be compelling charges
against semantic dispositionalism. In the next section, I argue that these charges are not as sweeping as originally supposed. The Circularity and Infinity Objections, as I shall argue, can be answered by explaining the relationships between the content of various mental states
by appeal to the relationships between the dispositions, manifested under appropriate conditions, grounding those mental states. We can answer the Infinity Objection without employing circular reasoning, and thereby avoid the Circularity Objection. That is, I shall argue for the failure of Boghossian's general point that no appeal to dispositions under appropriate conditions will
suffice to satisfy the semantic holist. This is best demonstrated by way of a
version of semantic dispositionalism that stresses the uses to which expressions (in the language of thought) are put: namely, a variety of conceptual role semantics.
According to conceptual role semantics, the content of a mental state is
determined by the various uses to which it is put in one's mental economy-e.g., the ways in which any given expression features in inferences, the roles it plays in perception, or the other uses to which it is put in the language of thought. In particular, we shall assume a version of the thesis that also cites appropriate conditions. In doing so, we enjoy the same benefits as (SW) e.g., distinguishing between proper and improper uses of an expression, arguably allaying Kripke's worries about normativity. For such an account:
(CR) S has a mental state with content F if and only if S possesses a 
corresponding complex of dispositions x1...Xn, manifested under conditions C, to use an expression e (in the language of thought) in various ways, each of which serves a role in S's mental economy.
Boghossian's concern is that no appeal to a single disposition under appropriate 
conditions can ground the near-infinite relationships that a contentful mental state bears to other such states; we cannot feasibly build the absence of the near-infinite factors that determine the content of a mental state into a
specification of the conditions appropriate to the manifestation of any given disposition. But as expressed by (CR), for a conceptual role version of dispositionalism, the content of a mental state is determined by the various uses to which its constituent symbols (in the language of thought) are put. This suggests that, rather than ground any given contentful mental states by appeal to a single disposition under appropriate conditions, we should ground any given content by appeal to a complex of dispositions under appropriate conditions, each member of which grounds a particular sort of use to which a symbol is put. As such, I suggest explaining the phenomenon of any given mental state affecting any other mental state by appeal to the near-infinite relationships between the many dispositions that ground one's network of contentful mental states.
We should say that particular (content-constituting) dispositions, pertaining to the use of any given expression in the language of thought, are those dispositions to use ei, in the language of thought, on various sorts of occasions. The total complex of (content-constituting) dispositions, comprised of particular dispositions to use ej in various ways, supplies a complete specification of the use of ei, and hence its total conceptual role. For example, suppose that S, under appropriate conditions, is disposed to infer an expression ej from ez; and infer ez from the conditional ez only if ez, and ez; and infer e3 from the disjunction ez or es; and so on. Each of S's dispositions contribute to a network of dispositions, where the symbols S is disposed to use serve as its nodes. The complete characterization of the conceptual role of ez, for instance, can be read off those dispositions to use ez in (e.g.) inferential liaisons. In this simplified case, two separate dispositions contribute to the total conceptual role of ez.
We might include, amongst one's particular dispositions contributing to
the total specification of a conceptual role, those dispositions to use symbols in the manner of symbol-world relationships. For (CR) is compatible with the one-factor approach espoused by Harman and the two-factor approach championed by Block In the former case, we should expect some of the particular dispositions cited in (CR) to be of the long-armed variety, so that the uses to which an expression are put involve 'reaching out' into the world, much in the manner of determining the denotation of a term.
And in the latter case, we should expect the particular dispositions grounding content to be accommodated, in part by those cited in (SW), and in part by those dispositions to use expressions cited in (CR). In short, various (e.g.) inferential or symbol-world liaisons might count as the particular dispositions to use ei; and taken together, all of the conceptual roles pertaining to ei make for the total complex of dispositions fixing the content of the relevant mental state.
That (CR) avoids the Circularity Objection should be evident. It does so by stressing that the near-infinite factors affecting a mental state's content are explained at the level of the dispositions and, importantly, the relationships holding between them-that ground one's mental contents. Notice that (CR) respects the dispositionalist's sentiment that, whatever the particular property that determines the content of a mental state, it pertains to one's dispositions. At the same time, that (CR) respects this sentiment is not incompatible with the holist's thesis that the content of a mental state is determined by relational properties that it bears to other contents. For the dispositions to use expressions in the language of thought (manifested under appropriate conditions) bear various relationships to one another, and it is in virtue of these relationships that some dispositions serve as those grounding
the content of a mental state. So again, we can do the relevant explanatory work at the level of the dispositions grounding mental states, and thereby avoid the circularity motivating Boghossian's charge.
Having answered the Circularity Objection, we have in hand the materials for solving the Infinity Objection. Boghossian's worry about the arbitrary robustness of mental content is that possessing a belief with a particular content might be based, not (solely) on possession of a particular disposition in the presence of a particular set of circumstances, but rather based on possessing some other contentful mental states perhaps a near-infinite number of them. But with the emphasis placed on one's dispositions (qua conceptual roles) and the relationships holding between them, we can explain how the content of one mental state is affected by others by appreciating
the relationships between the dispositions grounding that mental state and
the relationships it bears to the dispositions grounding other mental states.
That is, the near-infinite ways in which the content of one mental state might be affected by others is dependent on the various relationships between the
dispositions grounding each mental state. The work of determining the content of any given mental state is distributed over the various dispositions
(manifested under appropriate conditions) that comprise the total complex of dispositions to employ an expression in the language of thought. argues that the Infinity Objection undermines a Lewis-inspired disposi-tionalism along with Boghossian's original target. Though such an account is a variety of functionalism and hence resembles conceptual role semantics in one respect one might plausibly wonder whether a Lewis-style approach can avoid the Infinity Objection in much the way that I have suggested. It is not implausible to think that a sufficiently augmented account could avoid Boghossian's concerns. But a Lewis-style approach fails in an additional respect. As Miller argues, such an approach requires citing platitudes from our folk theory of mind in order to specify the functional roles characterizing contentful mental states, and the Infinity Objection recurs for the task of specifying such platitudes.)
Consider how (CR) bears on the matter of belief fixation, as one contributing factor to determining the content of a mental state. We should expect semantic holism to remain a plausible thesis on the condition that it
provides an account of the relationships between expressions in the language
of thought. The account 1 offer provides just such a story, and it does so in
terms of dispositions under appropriate conditions. I assume, with Boghossian, that possessing any belief might affect one's possessing any other belief.
But on my account, the phenomenon that one's holding a particular belief could affect one's holding another belief is explained by way of the relationships between the dispositions grounding each mental state. For example, suppose that an agent's disposition to apply 'Lo, magpie' is triggered indirectly by way of her manifested disposition to apply 'If magpie-droppings are found, then there are magpies about, and lo, there are magpie-droppings.
In this case, the two dispositions that one possesses are related because of their ranging over the same symbol; and the manifestation of one disposition might very well prompt the manifestation of the other. Though this is a fairly simply case, we should expect the same point to hold for more complicated
cases as well only with many more intermediary dispositions serving in the
explanation of the relationship between two beliefs. In what follows, I anticipate (as well as dispense with) two objections to my use of (CR) to defend semantic dispositionalism.
Objection (1): One might be concerned that, while on (CR) the content
of a mental state is determined by a complex of dispositions, for any particular 
disposition belonging to that complex, the relationships it bears to other dispositions must be built into the conditions appropriate to its manifesta-tion. But the manifestation of dispositions not belonging to this complex might nevertheless contribute indirectly to the manifestation of those 
dispositions belonging to this complex. Moreover, we should expect a near-infinite number of dispositions to indirectly affect the manifestation of any other dis-
position belonging to the same network of dispositions. It appears, then, that when specifying the conditions appropriate to the manifestation of any particular disposition to use an expression, we should cite the absence of interference of (a near-infinite number of) indirectly related dispositions. So
it appears that the Infinity Objection arises for any particular disposition contributing to the determination of the content of a mental state.
Reply to (1): This concern is based on a misunderstanding. For as already
argued, appealing to the relationships between particular dispositions to use expressions (in order to make for a total complex of dispositions) serves as the basis for solving the Circularity Objection; and by solving that problem, we have in hand the means for solving the Infinity Objection. So we may grant that, when specifying the conditions appropriate to any disposition to use an expression, that we should include its relationships to other dispositions to use expressions and the absence of their interfering influences. Granting this point, though, does not invite the Infinity Objection anew, since we have in place a reductive account in virtue of which we can appreciate how one
mental content might be affected by a near-infinite number of others. That
is, the key point is that we have in hand such a story, one that explains the relationships between mental contents in terms of non-intentional facts.
Objection (2): One might worry that (CR) appears to avoid Boghossian's
concern only by relegating the importance of appropriate conditions C to a
place of unimportance in determining the content of a mental state. That is, whereas (SW) construes C as content-bestowing, (CR) lets the dispositions cited (rather than the conditions appropriate to their manifestation)
fix the content of any mental states. And since the Infinity and Circularity
objections are aimed against versions of dispositionalism which make essential 
appeal to C, and (CR) does so only incidentally, (CR) does not serve as a genuine counterexample to Boghossian's general thesis.
Reply to (2): Like the first concern raised, this one is based on a misunderstanding. In this case, it makes the same sort of appeal to appropriate conditions as (SW). For the point of any such appeal is to establish that some
dispositions serve as the basis for correct action, be it the correct applications of symbols to objects or states-of-affair, or the correct use of symbols in relation to other symbols. And unless (CR) cites such conditions appropriate
to the manifestation of the relevant dispositions, there is no means available for settling which dispositions fix the content of a mental state and no basis
for appreciating falling into error. So again, the concern raised fails to hold. We are left, then, with a version of semantic dispositionalism immune to Boghossian's holism-inspired concerns. This seems to suggest that the appeal
to appropriate conditions is not the weakest link in a naturalistic approach to content. Rather, any dispositionalist account that insists on nothing more than symbol-world relationships proves insufficient to account for the semantic holist's insights. But this is not terribly surprising, since we should expect relationships between different symbols to serve as the basic components of
the holist's semantic machinery; the plausibility of semantic holism appears to rely on symbol-symbol (rather than symbol-world) relationships. It is no wonder that (SW) falls to Boghossian's attacks. An account of content which admits of both symbol-world and symbol-symbol relationships (much as one which admits only of symbol-symbol relations), though, is not vulnerable to Boghossian's objections.
Though I have provisionally favored an account of dispositions related
to symbols in the language of thought and their conceptual roles, the same point can presumably be made for similar accounts. Nevertheless, whether a fully fleshed-out dispositional account can answer traditional objections
to semantic dispositionalism (other than the ones raised by Boghossian) depends on the details of that account, and presumably does not turn on the materials I have introduced. Though many of the criticisms raised by Kripke
against semantic dispositionalism might apply quite generally without
regard to the variety of thesis used as an immediate target, the same cannot be said for Boghossian's objections entertained here. It appears, then, that Boghossian overgeneralizes the effects of objections from one version of semantic dispositionalism to another-from an informational version such as
(SW) to a conceptual role version such as (CR)—at least in respect to the importance of semantic holism.

Unbelievable Thoughts and Doxastic Oughts


From the dictum ought implies can, it has been argued that no account of belief's normativity can avoid the unpalatable result that, for unbelievable propositions such as 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining, one ought not to believe them even if true. In this paper, I
argue that this move only succeeds on a faulty assumption about the conjunction of doxastic 'oughts.' 'There are several interesting (and not entirely uncontroversial) respects in which the notion of belief (and related notions) might be construed as normative. For present purposes, though, I attend to the version of the thesis targeted by Bykvist and Hattiangadi
See Alston and Feldman for arguments about the normativity of epistemic notions such as justification and knowledge. For a dissenting view, see Fumerton. For an argument that mental content is a normative notion owing to its privileged relationship to belief. For a challenge to Boghossian's insistence on the primacy of belief over desire in attributions of mental states, Miller. Settling how the normativity thesis for belief (defended in this article) relates to these other notions is a matter to be addressed elsewhere. 

Truth is the mark of a correctly held belief. It has been argued that, not only is truth a major aim of investigation, but that the notion of belief is constitutively normative, so that the notion itself implies that one ought to form true beliefs. This thesis has recently been challenged on the grounds that no formulation of the thesis can successfully accommodate the dictum ought implies can. In one notable instance, Krister Bykvist and Anandi Hattiangadi argue persuasively that most plausible accounts of belief's normativity face the unpalatable result that, for unbelievable propositions such as 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining', one ought not to believe them even if true. And given a few seemingly intuitive assumptions, even appropriately restricted accounts of belief are unacceptable. For such accounts lead to a contradiction that one ought to believe such unbelievable propositions and one ought not to do so.
Though this objection appears small, its ability to undermine the thesis that belief is normative is significant
it warrants a response. In this paper I do just this, by arguing that the aforementioned contradiction results from a faulty assumption about conjunction as it pertains to the 'ought' of belief.
As I shall argue, the relevant principle of conjunction is best understood as a thesis restricted to those propositions (be they simple or complex) entertained by an agent which are truly believable. As such, a thoroughgoing normativity thesis, one that maintains that belief is normative and respects the appropriate logical relations between them, remains intact. On these grounds, unbelievable propositions do not serve as genuine counterexamples to the normativity thesis. I begin in the next section by characterizing the normativity of belief. In the following section, I reconstruct the objection raised by Bykvist and Hattiangadi. And in the final section, I argue that their objection fails because of a mischaracterization of conjunction as it pertains to the 'ought' of belief. A common way to express the relationship between believing a proposition p and the truth of p is:
(1) For any p: the belief that p is correct «› p is true(Note that any instance of the symbol ' should be interpreted as a biconditional, and any instance of the symbol '' should be interpreted as a material conditional.)
Proponents of the normativity of belief insist on reading (1) so that 'correct' is a normative term. The claim 'any belief that p is correct if and only if it is true' is not to be taken descriptively, so much as prescriptively. This prescription is directed to the act of believing (hence 'doxastic ought') rather than the proposition believed. Because 'correct' is a normative term, (1) may be restated, for any subject S and proposition p:
(2) For any S, p: S ought to believe that p ‹ p is true As it stands, though, (2) is untenable. Starting with the dictum ought implies can, it has been argued that no such principle can adequately express the
'ought' of belief because it fails to account fully for the 'can' of belief (e.g., Boghossian, 2003, Bykvist and Hattiangadi, 2007). This principle requires that, for any true proposition p, one ought to believe that p. But there are true propositions that an agent cannot believe. For instance, the conjunction of true propositions is also a true proposition, and by continually adding conjuncts to an increasingly complex proposition, one can be created too large for a finite mind to believe. Because one cannot believe such propositions, and ought implies can, one ought not believe such propositions even if they are true an unacceptable result. (Boghossian suggests that we accept a weaker alternative such as:

(2*) For any S, p: S ought to believe that p → p is true)

It appears, then, that in order to capture a doxastic ought without ignoring the corresponding can, we require a successor to (2) that does not inherit its weaknesses. The following principle does so by restricting the principle to those propositions one actually entertains:

(3) For any S, p: § considers whether p → (S ought to believe that p <› p is true)

This principle restricts the candidates for doxastic obligation, not to those one might entertain, but to those one actually entertains. By putting (3) this way, S is neither obligated to believe every true belief, nor those too complex for S to believe (since they cannot even be entertained by S). I take a principle such as (3) to hold promise.
In the next section, I develop an objection against this principle on behalf of Bykvist and Hattiangadi And in the following section, I shall indicate where their objection fails, thereby retaining a thesis about the constitutively normative nature of belief. Despite its initial plausibility, Bykvist and Hattiangadi argue that a principle such as (3) fails to accommodate every instance of the doxastic can. For there are propositions that it is logically impossible to believe truly. These include 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' and
"There are no believers.' Such propositions cannot be believed if they are true because their truth depends on nobody believing them. Roy Sorensen calls such propositions blindspots. (*More generally, blindspots are consistent propositions to which one cannot take certain propositional attitudes. Following Sorensen's lead, I shall call such propositions blindspot propositions)Applying (3) to the blindspot proposition
'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' yields:

(4) For any S, p: (S has considered whether it is raining and nobody believes that it is raining) → (S ought to believe that 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' « the proposition 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' is true)
According to (4), § ought to believe that 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' just in case it is raining and nobody believes it is so. As an application of (3), (4) serves as a counterexample to the general principle.
For S's believing that proposition renders it false, since it would no longer be the case that nobody believes that it is raining. So one cannot believe the proposition when it is true.
The following principle avoids such counterexamples by further restricting
(3) to those propositions which are truly believable:

(3a) For any S, p: (S considers whether p & p is truly believable) → (S
ought to believe that p ‹› p is true)
And by way of a principle complementary to (3a), we can also appreciate that S ought not to believe p if it fails to be truly believable:

(5) For any S, p: (S considers whether p & p is not truly believable) → (S ought not to believe that p)

Though (3a) and (5) have been formulated in order to avoid counterexamples such as (4), they inadvertently generate a contradiction. Bykvist and Hattiangadi begin their reasoning with a seemingly innocuous principle about conjunction:

(6) (S ought to believe that p & S ought to believe that q) → (S ought to believe that p & q)

According to (6), one ought to believe that 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' if one ought to believe both 'It is raining' and 'nobody believes that it is raining'. Each conjunct is truly believable when taken separately, whereas their conjunction is not. By (3a), one ought to believe each of the truly believable conjuncts of a blindspot proposition, and by (6), one ought to believe their conjunction. This surprising conclusion conflicts with an application of the blindspot proposition to (5), where we yield the conclusion that one ought not to believe the proposition (so conjoined) because the conjunction is not truly believable. So by assuming (3a), (5), and (6), we generate the contradiction that, 'you ought to believe that it is raining and you ought to believe that nobody believes that it is raining, but you ought not to believe that it is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' In short, each doxastic obligation can be satisfied when taken separately, but not when taken together; we face a more insidious version of the objection that the doxastic 'can' cannot be captured.
While this objection from unbelievable thoughts appears convincing, 1 am nevertheless sympathetic to principles such as (3a) and (5). In the next section, I shall initiate a defense of these principles, aimed at Bykvist and Hattiangadi's handling of conjunction as expressed by (6).

As it stands, (6) is an imperfect counterpart to (3a) and (5). For (6) purports to express the conjunction of doxastic 'oughts', even though it fails to include any of the qualifications that render (3a) and (5) plausible expressions of the normativity thesis. Since (6) is about how S ought to conduct herself doxastically, we should expect the lesson of moving from (3) to (3a) to apply to complex propositions as well as simple ones. Similar cases also prompted adopting (3) over (2), where such unacceptable results were remedied by restricting the propositions that one ought to believe to those that one can believe. By parity of reasoning, we should restrict the propositions to which (6) applies. (SIn reaction to his Lottery Paradox, Kyburg suggests rejecting a principle about conjunction pertaining to rational belief acceptance, not unlike (6). While this too might serve as an acceptable response to Bykvist and Hattiangadi's objection, I offer the alternative of restricting the principle about conjunction. Whether a similar restriction strategy would serve us well as a solution to the Lottery Paradox is a matter to be addressed elsewhere.)We might expect a principle such as:

(6a) For any S, p, 9: (S considers whether p & whether q, & p is truly believable & q is truly believable) → [(S ought to believe that p & S ought to believe that q) → (S ought to believe that p E q)]
But even this principle runs afoul in the same way as (6). For the constituents of a blindspot proposition, p and q, are each truly believable when taken separately. But their conjunction is not truly believable, a fact that (6a) does not include amongst its antecedent conditions. So (3a) and (6a) also yield the unpalatable consequence that one ought to believe a blindspot proposition.
It appears that we require a principle that ranges over all of the propositions that S ought to believe, one which allows for S to fulfill all of her doxastic obligations. That is, the normativity thesis applies, not only to atomic propositions, but also to compound propositions. This necessitates yet another tweak to the principle, where the meta-variable @ stands for any proposition that S might entertain, be it conjunct or conjunction (i.e., p, g, p8 q):
(6a*) For any S, Ф, p, q: (S considers whether ф1...Фn, & all p's so considered are truly believable) → (S ought to believe that p & S ought to believe that g) → (S ought to believe that p E q)]
And for much the same reason that (3a) is complemented by (5), we appreciate that ought not to believe the conjunction of p and q if any of the propositions involved fail to be truly believable:
(7) For any S, ф: (S considers whether ...n, and for any considered i that is not truly believable) → (S ought not to believe Ф;)
According to (6a*), when all of the propositions S entertains are truly believable, s ought to believe a conjoined proposition if she ought to believe its conjuncts. And according to (7), if one of propositions involved is not truly believable, then that proposition (be it conjunct or conjunction) ought not to be believed. So while the conjuncts of 'It is a raining and nobody believes that it is raining' are each truly believable when entertained separately, so that S ought believe each of them just when they are true, according to (6a*), S ought to believe their conjunction if the conjoined proposition is also truly believable. But this is not the case for a blindspot proposition.
That such a conjunction is not truly believable brings it under the antecedent conditions of (7), so that one ought not to believe it. So (6a*) and (7) yield the right result that one ought not believe a blindspot proposition, even when one ought to believe its conjuncts individually. That (6a*) and (7) avoid the fate befalling (6) is due to restricting the conjunction of doxastic oughts to only those propositions that are truly believable, which includes the conjunction itself. In short, blindspot propositions do not, contra Bykvist
*Bykvist and Hattiangadi voice another concern that, independent of any view about conjunction, we cannot jointly fulfill our doxastic obligations. By (3а), though we can separately fulfill our doxastic objections to believe that 'It is raining' and
'Nobody believes that it is raining' (when they are both true), believing both propositions leads to believing something one ought not to believe. The way to take this objection is that (3a) demands that we accept two beliefs that, when taken together, make for an inconsistent set.
It is not entirely clear, though, as to whether this presents a genuine problem. To see this, recall Kyburg's (1961, 1970) response to the lottery paradox. He resolves the paradox by maintaining that, though it is not rational to accept belief in a contradictory proposition, it is nevertheless rational to tolerate joint inconsistency: though we may not believe a contradiction, we may have a set of beliefs that contains a falsehood. 
 in regard to the paradox of the preface, makes a similar point.) In Kyburg's case, he suggests rejecting a conjunction principle not unlike (6). But is unlikely that he would have similar reservations towards a principle such as (6a*), which captures the intuition that conjunction plays some role in our cognitive lives, albeit a restricted one. (Though there are various versions of each paradox, with emphases on (e.g.) rationality, justification, and true belief, we should expect the basic point to remain pertinent.) So perhaps we may tolerate believing both 'It is raining' and 'Nobody believes that it is raining', even though we are not obligated to believe their conjunction (and hence a blindspot proposition).
But if such a response proves unsatisfactory, I suspect the concern here is not with the norm expressed by (3a), but with a concern about the role of consistency in maintaining a set of beliefs. If so, we should expect a revision to (3a), where we recast it as the expression of a pro tanto obligation to hold true beliefs, so as to remain responsive to additional normative constraints on accepting beliefs, while still holding some weight of its own:
(3a*) For any S, p: (S considers whether p, & p is truly believable) → (S ought pro tanto
to believe that p ‹ p is true) and Hattiangadi, undermine the thesis that belief is normative.
It cannot be emphasized enough that the major motivation by which we arrived at (6a*) and (7) is that one ought only believe those propositions which are genuinely believable. The proposition 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' shows that a conjunction does not necessarily inherit its being truly believable from its constituents in the same way that it inherits its truth value. Though one might wonder whether a proposition such as 'It is raining and nobody believes that it is raining' is true, a rational agent will upon reflection, realize that one cannot believe it. That is, as a matter of logical structure, blindspot propositions cannot be believed. As such, they should not be regarded as counterexamples to the thesis that belief is normative so much as constraints on those beliefs that fall under the scope of the normativity thesis about belief. What the emphasis on (6a*) and (7) shows is that a thoroughgoing normativity thesis eliminates the threat posed by Bykvist and Hattiangadi. (So even if one finds fault with the particular formulations of (6a*) or (7), the initial motivation should nevertheless remain persuasive, meriting a revision to the principles, rather than conceding defeat to Bykvist and Hattiangadi.) Since we can accommodate the doxastic can without worrying about true though unbelievable contents, we retain the means for appreciating the doxastic ought. Part of what it is to be a belief is to bear a normative relationship to truth. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Methodological Deflationism and Semantic Theories

Methodological deflationism is a policy about how we should conduct ourselves when it comes to theories of truth: in particular, a deflationary theory of truth should be taken a i stay is moia end the ally tire me so bid be infated only as
virtue of parsimony with that of explanatory sufficiency. In this article, the case is made that the methodological deflationist is in no position to properly balance those virtues—a point made evident by tracing the relationship between semantic theories and the explanatory needs of theories of truth. Furthermore, methodological deflationism threatens to unduly influence semantic theorizing and, in doing so, displays an inappropriate bias towards deflationary theories of truth. 

Deflationary approaches to truth reject that truth occupies a place in explanatory projects, whether this takes the form of a deflationary theory of truth or methodological deflationism. A deflationary theory of truth takes the property of truth as its focus, rejecting that the property plays any explanatory role-whether this is because truth is not a substantive property, or truth is exhausted by the equivalence of p and ascriptions of truth to p, or truth is a mere expressive device for making various generalizations, or something else. In contrast, methodological deflationism is a policy about how we should conduct ourselves when it comes to theories of truth: in particular, a deflationary theory of truth should be taken as one's starting point, and the notion of truth should be inflated only as necessary. As Harty Field originally put it:
All I really hope to motivate here is that we should be 'methodological defla-tionists': that is, we should start out assuming deflationism as a working hypothesis; we should adhere to it unless and until we find ourselves reconstructing what amounts to the inflationist's relation 'S has the truth conditions p'. So methodological deflationism is simply a methodological policy, which if pursued could lead to the discovery that deflationism in the original sense ("metaphysical deflationism') is workable or could lead to the discovery that inflationism is inevitable. It could also turn out that we end up constructing something that might or might not be regarded as the inflationist's relation that
'S has the truth conditions p'; in that case, the line between inflationism and metaphysical deflationism will turn out to have blurred. Our case begins, like many discussions of deflationism and semantics, with a reminder: a common objection to deflationary theories of truth is that they are incompatible with a highly successful member of the representationalist tradition in semantics, namely, truth-conditional semantics. Since inflationary theories of truth take the property of truth to have explanatory power, they naturally pair with semantic theories that explain meaning by appeal to truth-conditions. But because deflationary theories of truth deny that the property of truth has any explanatory power, they are committed to denying that truth can feature in semantic theories in an explanatory capacity. (This sort of objection to deflationism has met with several challenges. The significance of these challenges (or lack thereof) to the case being made here against methodological deflationism will be discussed in the next section.)
Responding to this objection, Field points out that the relevant semantic phenomena do not necessitate a representationalist and hence inflationist treatment. The competing anti-representationalist tradition in semantics includes inferentialism, expressivism, verificationism and other use-based approaches each of which takes its signature notion to drive the explanatory work of a semantic theory. The focus here will be on global anti-representationalist semantic theories (targeting the entire lan-guage) rather than local versions (targeting part of the language) That local theories are compatible with inflationism introduces their own complications for methodological deflationism, worthy of a separate article. Deflationary theories of truth make for a natural fit with this tradition, since anti-representa-tionalist semantic theories characteristically do not deploy truth and reference for explanatory purposes. Indeed, Field frames the contrast between inflationism and deflationism as being, "in some ways the most fundamental division within the theory of content and meaning". For some anti-representa-tionalist accounts, the deflationary spirit lurks in the background, as observations about "the otherwise mysterious correlation" between one's beliefs about names and those things named are explained in anything but representationalist terms. For other accounts, deflationism comes to the foreground, allowing for an explicitly deflationary construal of our use of the words 'truth' and 'reference' (e.g., performing a disquotational role) alongside the explanatory work of a semantic theory.
While Field's suggestion appears valuable to methodological deflationists, in what follows, I will argue that the natural pairing of deflationist theories of truth and anti-representationalist semantic theories actually burdens methodological deflation-ists with a number of uncomfortable commitments. These commitments will force the conclusion that methodological deflationism does not offer appropriate advice— even at this stage of inquiry. In order to frame this argument, consider the theoretical virtues motivating methodological deflationism. Since methodological deflationism recommends starting with a minimal commitment regarding truth (e.g., the equivalence schema), and taking on ontological commitments only as needed, the policy appears to proceed from an interest in balancing the needs of theoretical parsimony and explanatory sufficiency. While Ockham's razor (to cite the classic expression of parsimony) cautions against a theory expanding its ontological commitments beyond necessity, Chatton's "anti-razor" just as importantly highlights that a theory must avoid contracting its ontological commitments beyond the point that it can do its expected explanatory work.(Chatton's anti-razor recommends that, "if three things are not enough to verify an affirmative proposition about things, a fourth must be added, and so on") Now, it is one thing to compare two worked-out theories, and decide which best strikes the balance between parsimony and explanatory sufficiency. It is quite another to anticipate which theory will best strike this balance before all of the pertinent explanatory needs have even been identified. This latter situation is one where at least one of the theoretical virtues at hand cannot be properly exercised; and this is precisely the situation in which methodological deflationists find themselves. Though there are worked-out inflationary and deflationary theories of truth, the list of explanatory needs-what (if anything) requires explanation by a successful theory of truth—has yet to be fully specified. That such needs have not been so specified might not be surprising, since one of the chief disputes between proponents of deflationary and inflationary theories of truth is over the proper role of truth: whether truth plays an expressive role or an explanatory role (and, if so, what must be explained). But while Armour-Garb and Beall) might take this as grounds for embracing methodological deflationism (given the passage quoted above), the situation is much more complicated than it initially appears.
To bring these complications to the surface, notice that the choice of semantics determines, in part, what does (or does not) require explanation by a theory of truth. Semantic theories must meet their own explanatory demands, such as explaining why we accept some sentences (but not others) under various circumstances, and why we draw the kinds of inferences that we do. But the respect in which they each meet those demands-whatever serves as their respective explanans-can raise questions answered only by a theory of truth. For representationalist theories casting truth in the central explanatory role, the meanings of sentences are usually explained in terms of the conditions under which they are true. Accordingly, that we are capable of recognizing the conditions under which sentences are true in contexts helps to explain why we accept some sentences (the true ones), but not others (the false ones). And that we are capable of recognizing entailment relations between claims helps to explain why we accept some inferential patterns (from truths to truths, from falsehoods to falsehoods, and from falsehoods to truths), but not others (from truths to falsehoods). To the extent that truth—a symbol-to-world relation-is taken to explain how speakers talk about entities and what follows from claims about those entities, questions arise as to the nature of this relation, including how speakers and entities are so related. Indeed, specific positions on truth-makers and truth-bearers built into a particular semantic theory will tighten the focus on what is required by an account of the relation holding between them. While these need not be questions raised internally for such semantic theories, they are precisely the sorts of questions to be answered by an inflationary theory of truth. Anti-representationalist theories face quite the opposite situation: no such questions are raised (to be answered by a theory of truth), since such semantic theories do not cast truth in an explanatory role.
Of course, there are a number of positions hailing from each of these semantic traditions, serving as the subjects of substantive inquiries, tasked with respecting empirical and formal constraints (e.g., fitting speakers' intuitions, providing a compositional semantics). In point of fact, significant progress in formal semantics has been made in the last several decades, though mostly coming from the representa-tionalist tradition. Still, we have yet to achieve a single complete semantic theory for any natural language-from either tradition. At this stage of inquiry, while we may not conclude that the best explanation of semantic phenomena precludes the property of truth, nor may we conclude that the best explanation includes this property.(Emboldened by the successes of truth-conditional semantics, inflationists might insist that, even at this stage of inquiry, the best explanation of semantic phenomena appears to include the property of truth— or at least we should proceed thusly until proven otherwise. See Horwich for arguments that the last half-century's progress in truth-conditional semantics does not warrant dismissing deflationism and use-based theories of meaning.)It therefore remains an open question whether truth will play an explanatory role in the best explanation of semantic phenomena. How the matter is settled directly impacts what does (or does not) require explanation by a theory of truth —what fully counts as an explanatorily sufficient theory of truth. But, again, this has not yet been settled. Hence, it has not been established what fully counts as an explanatorily sufficient theory of truth. How, then, can methodological deflationists justifiably recommend one such position on truth (even provisionally) as the best balance between parsimony and explanatory sufficiency? It is unclear that they can do so, since one of the theoretical virtues motivating the adoption of this policy cannot be properly exercised at this stage of inquiry.
Though this result does not bode well for methodological deflationism, we should not be too hasty in drawing even graver implications. That we have yet to completely settle what requires explanation by any theory of truth does not imply that we cannot investigate the nature of truth; nor that we must reach some impossibly high standard before beginning any such inquiry. After all, as already mentioned, one of the major disagreements between proponents of deflationary and inflationary theories is over the proper role of truth, which includes what constitutes an explanatorily sufficient theory of truth in the first place. While proponents of inflationary theories often highlight (for example) the need to characterize the nature and value of the relation between truth-makers and truth-bears, their deflationary counterparts characteristically deny that there is anything worth explaining or, perhaps, that we must simply explain how the word 'true' is used. So, the fact that we have yet to establish what counts as an explanatorily sufficient theory does not impede investigations into the nature of truth, so far as deflationary and inflationary theories are concerned.
This still leaves methodological deflationism in a difficult situation, owing not just to the obstruction of one of its motivating virtues, but also the potential impact of this policy on semantic theorizing. Since methodological deflationism recommends taking a deflationary theory of truth as our initial working hypothesis, and deflationary theories of truth naturally pair with anti-representationalist semantic theories, methodological deflationism is therefore committed to also recommending an anti-representationalist semantic theory as an initial working hypothesis. In its own right, this conclusion is troubling. Though methodological deflationism is compatible with eventually entertaining an inflationary theory of truth, its initial recommendation for a working hypothesis promises to aim inquiry in a particular direc-tion. However, we should expect such inquiries to be driven by the specific evidential and explanatory issues arising from substantive semantic theorizing-and not an antecedent recommendation about truth. We simply cannot assume ahead of evaluating the pertinent arguments and evidence that some anti-representationalist accounts are more promising than their representationalist counterparts. So, methodological deflationism risks influencing semantic theorizing in an inappropriate fashion.
Once we recall the previous observation that the explanatory needs of a theory of truth can depend on the choice of semantics, methodological deflationism's original advice regarding a theory of truth is also sullied. The recommendation to accept a deflationary theory of truth (even provisionally) invites the choice of an anti-repre-sentationalist theory; and the choice of an anti-representationalist theory, in turn, avoids introducing additional explanatory needs for a theory of truth. As such, the choice of an anti-representationalist theory helps avoid taking on any inflationary commitments-and this further cements a deflationary theory of truth. Imagine the frustration of deflationists, if a 'methodological inflationist' were to instead insist that we take an inflationary theory of truth as our initial working hypothesis—-moti-vated, say, by favoring Chatton's anti-razor over Ockham's razor.(antecedent recommendation about truth. We simply cannot assume ahead of evaluating the pertinent arguments and evidence that some anti-representationalist accounts are more promising than their representationalist counterparts. So, methodological deflationism risks influencing semantic theorizing in an inappropriate fashion.
Once we recall the previous observation that the explanatory needs of a theory of truth can depend on the choice of semantics, methodological deflationism's original advice regarding a theory of truth is also sullied. The recommendation to accept a deflationary theory of truth (even provisionally) invites the choice of an anti-repre-sentationalist theory; and the choice of an anti-representationalist theory, in turn, avoids introducing additional explanatory needs for a theory of truth. As such, the choice of an anti-representationalist theory helps avoid taking on any inflationary commitments-and this further cements a deflationary theory of truth. Imagine the frustration of deflationists, if a 'methodological inflationist' were to instead insist that we take an inflationary theory of truth as our initial working hypothesis—-moti-vated, say, by favoring Chatton's anti-razor over Ockham's razor.' By reasoning similar to that already introduced, doing so would ensure the need for a represen-tationalist semantic theory, and further entrench the need for an inflationary theory of truth. However, deflationists would be right to point out that such methodological advice is worrisome, as it risks begging the question against deflationary theories of truth. And so we can see that methodological deflationism also offers bad advice, as it risks begging the question against inflationary theories of truth.' In short, methodological deflationism threatens to unduly influence semantic theorizing and, in doing so, displays an inappropriate bias towards deflationary theories of truth.) By reasoning similar to that already introduced, doing so would ensure the need for a represen-tationalist semantic theory, and further entrench the need for an inflationary theory of truth. However, deflationists would be right to point out that such methodological advice is worrisome, as it risks begging the question against deflationary theories of truth. And so we can see that methodological deflationism also offers bad advice, as it risks begging the question against inflationary theories of truth.(The variety of circularity leveled against methodological deflationism here should not be confused with the variety of circularity which motivates some deflationary theories of truth.) In short, methodological deflationism threatens to unduly influence semantic theorizing and, in doing so, displays an inappropriate bias towards deflationary theories of truth. The case just made against methodological deflationism appeals to the natural pairings of deflationism and anti-representationalism (on the one hand), and inflationism and representationalism (on the other). These pairings are certainly secured if we also accept the orthodox view that deflationary theories of truth are incompatible with truth-conditional semantics. But our case against methodological deflationism does not depend on accepting this orthodoxy. Rather, our case rests on the respect in which the explanatory needs of any theory of truth depend, in part, on the best explanation of semantic phenomena. Importantly, rejecting the orthodox view does not necessarily dispel this dependency.
In order to demonstrate this, consider a prominent challenge to the orthodox view.
Michael Williams argues that Davidsonian semantics, while a celebrated truth conditional theory (Though Davidson avoided labels such as 'representationalism', he nevertheless took truth to be robust enough to perform an explanatory role for semantics.)can actually be paired with a deflationary theory of truth:
A Davidsonian theory of meaning, for a particular speaker, is a device for giving the meaning of every sentence in that speaker's idiolect. If we like, we can say that such a theory explains what that speaker's sentences mean. But to explain what particular sentences mean is not to explain what meaning is. A fortiori, it is not to explain what meaning is by appeal to truth. In this respect, Davidsonian theories of meaning are just like Quinean translation manuals. Translation manuals give translations; they do not explain what translation is or what makes one sentence a good translation of another.... In specifying the meanings of sentences in another speaker's idiolect, we associate his sentences with sentences of our own. In doing so, we make use of the truth predicate, which is what lends color to the idea that Davidson explains meaning in terms of truth-conditions. But the use of 'true' in a Davidsonian meaning specification for a particular speaker is expressive, not explanatory.
Suppose that Williams is correct, suggesting that deflationism is compatible with at least one truth-conditional theory.(Though Davidson avoided labels such as 'representationalism', he nevertheless took truth to be robust enough to perform an explanatory role for semantics.)It does not follow, though, that just any deflationary theory of truth is compatible with Davidsonian semantics. As Horisk argues, neither Quine's disquotationalism, nor Horwich's minimalism, nor Brandon's anaphoric account can meet some basic expressive needs of the truth predicate in Davidsonian semantics. Indeed, echoing our own concerns about explanatory needs, she argues that a full list of the relevant expressive needs has yet to be specified.
That some deflationary accounts but not others might meet the basic expressive needs for Davidsonian semantics suggests an interesting, non-trivial relationship between theories of truth and semantics. The success of Williams' project (seen through the lens Horisk provides) does not upset most pairings of inflationary theories with representationalist semantics; and it certainly does not upset any pairings of deflationary theories with anti-representationalist semantics. Williams shows only that a particular truth-conditional account is to be paired with some (though not all) deflationary theories. This introduces a slightly wider range of pairings of theories of truth and semantic theories than expected on the orthodox view. But the choice of semantics here continues to influence the explanatory needs (if any) of a theory of truth. That has not changed, even on Williams' account. The relevant dependency has not only been preserved, but enriched to include expressive needs. And so long as this dependency is in place, our case against methodological deflationism holds firm. All of this suggests the need for a different methodological policy. Both inflationary and deflationary approaches to truth, paired with their associated semantic machin-ery, rightly serve as competing working hypotheses. Yes, we may take them as package deals, the members of which are together subject to the slash of the razor and the parry of the anti-razor-but those packages may be developed independently, without any one package enjoying the privileged starting point. In many cases, these positions are already seen (by their proponents) in this light. But if methodological deflation-ism were fully embraced, our seeing these hypotheses as proper competitors-at this stage of inquiry-would rest on a mistake. On the proposed alternative methodological policy, however, we better capture how such proponents plausibly view their own work.
In short, regarding the nature of truth and meaning, we rarely have the luxury of taking default positions. 
Simple tasks, abstractions, and semantic dispositionalism

According to certain kinds of semantic dispositionalism, what an agent means by her words is grounded by her dispositions to complete simple tasks. This sort of position is often thought to avoid the finitude problem raised by Kripke against simpler forms of dispositionalism.
The traditional objection is that, since words possess indefinite (or infinite) extensions, and our dispositions to use words are only finite, those dispositions prove inadequate to serve as ground for what we mean by our words. I argue that, even if such positions (emphasizing simple tasks) avoid the traditional form of Kripke's charge, they still succumb to special cases of the finitude problem. Furthermore, I show how such positions can be augmented so as to avoid even these special cases. Doing so requires qualifying the dispositions of interest as those possessed by the abstracted version of an actual agent (in contrast to, say, an idealized version of the agent). In addition to avoiding the finitude problem in its various forms, the position that results provides new materials for appreciating the role that abstracting models can play for a dispositionalist theory of meaning. 

According to semantic dispositionalism, the meanings of the terms an agent uses are determined by some of her dispositions, such as those of a recogni-tional, discriminatory, or inferential variety. As part of his case for meaning scepticism, Saul Kripke (1982) offers several criticisms of this kind of posi-tion. Among them is what will be called the finitude problem: while terms possess indefinite (or even infinite) extensions, agents like us possess only finite dispositions. So we cannot, contrary to the ambitions of the semantic dispositionalist, ground the intended meaning of terms on the basis of such dispositions. ('This problem is generalizable to any attempt to (metaphysically) reduce meaning to naturalistically respectable materials (including physical states, capacities, or abilities, all of which might be finite). Solutions (to the finitude problem for physical states, capacities, or abilities) can be offered analogous to those addressed in this article) In reaction to this problem, Simon Blackburn (1984) and Neil Tennant
(1997) (building on a suggestion by Jon Cogburn) have denied that we should appeal to the total dispositional state of an agent in order to settle what she means by her words. (Though Tennant developed the position in some detail, he credits Cogburn with originally suggesting the strategy) Rather, they suggest that a finite agent's ability to indefinitely apply a term is best explained by appeal to her dispositions to complete simple, entirely surveyable tasks. Here, I argue (in §4.1 and
§4.2) that, despite the appeal of this position, it still faces special cases of the finitude problem. Furthermore, I show how the use of abstracting models can remedy these problems.
As Nicholas Jones and I originally
argued, the traditional finitude problem can be solved by appealing to the dispositions possessed by the abstracted version of an agent, where the limits on the traits responsible for our finite nature are ignored in a principled fashion. I adapt a similar strategy here to the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach, allowing us to keep some of what is promising about the approach.
Of course, the initial appeal of the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach is its promise to resolve the finitude problem. So, it is reasonable to wonder whether the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach retains any of that appeal if it must rely on abstracting models in order to avoid special cases of the finitude problem. To address this concern, it is established that the Podlaskowski-Jones approach also benefits from its merging with the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach; as such, the latter approach takes on a new significance, still in relation to the finitude problem. More specifically, while the case that Jones and I originally made for the use of abstracting models was in reaction to one of Kripke's charges against the use of idealizing models, Kripke raised an additional charge that we did not explicitly address. A version of that charge, adapted to the use of abstractions, is raised (in §6, §6.1, and §6.2); and it is shown, by citing the dispositions emphasized in the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach, that an apt reply is made available.
In short, this essay is an exercise in symbiosis, executed on behalf of two forms of semantic dispositionalism. As a preliminary step to making this case, a basic characterization is given (in the next section) of meaning skepticism and the finitude problem facing semantic dispositionalism. With the sceptical paradox he attributes to Wittgenstein, Kripke (1982) threatens many theories of meaning, including semantic dispositionalism. To illustrate the challenge, consider an agent's use of the symbol '†'. Suppose she were asked to answer "25+200=?'. If she meant addition by '†' should answer '225'. The meaning sceptic, though, demands that we cite the fact about this agent in virtue of which she means (or meant) addition instead of some other function, e.g., quaddition, where one has successfully quadded just in case, if both of the numbers (presented) are less than 57, one should produce their sum; and if either of the numbers (presented) is greater than or equal to 57, one should answer '5'. The semantic dispositionalist answers the meaning sceptic by appealing to an agent's dispositions to use the symbol '†'. According to one version of the thesis, that an agent means
addition by the use of the symbol '†' is owing to her being disposed, under conditions that are normal, standard, or favorable, to answer '225' to the question '25+200=?' and to give answers indicative of addition for all other pairs of numbers. (The appeal to standard, optimal, or favorable conditions is an attempt to differentiate between those dispositions that ground correct uses of expressions from those that ground incorrect uses. It has been argued, however, that any such appeal must be viciously circular. For related arguments, see Boghossian and Fodor. For a reply to Boghossian's objection from semantic holism, see Podlaskowski. And for an argument that semantic holism actually aids the opponent of the meaning sceptic, see Tennant. For more general defenses of the appeal to conditions of the, e.g., standard, favorable, or optimal variety, see Miller and Pettit. As to whether this sort of strategy or another one allows for successfully distinguishes between correct and incorrect uses of terms is not an immediate concern. 
This sort of answer to the meaning sceptic presents a problem: although there are infinitely many numbers that might be added together, ordinary agents are not disposed to do so for any two numbers, because most numbers are too large for ordinary agents to process. This point generalizes easily: whereas any term can be applied correctly an indefinite (or even in-finite) number of times, the dispositions of an agent like us are only finite.
The correct application of any given term outpaces the dispositions of finite agents like us, therefore rendering those dispositions inadequate for reading an agent's intended meaning off her dispositions. Again, call this the finitude problem for semantic dispositionalism. In reaction to the finitude problem, Tennant identifies and rejects an assumption made by the meaning sceptic as unduly strong:
Why should one accept the implicit assumption that the dispo-sitionalist is committed to having the subject be able to carry out every command to add two numbers, no matter how large?
Clearly, this is too extravagant a demand. Why not rather say that the way to check a subject's 'correct' dispositions with regard to addition is to present him with any (stretch of) a computation of the sum of two numbers, and then, with respect to any sur-veyable aspect of such a computation, ask him whether it is in order? (1997, 138)
In place of the meaning sceptic's presumption that we appeal to the total dispositional state of an agent to use a particular expression, Tennant suggests that an agent need only possess the factorizable dispositions to handle a localized segment of a calculation or proof. (Though Tennant's point is part of a larger semantic anti-realist framework, it
has intuitive appeal independent of that project.)
To illustrate these dispositions, consider the following fragment of an
addition problem:
1
...67...
+...15
...82...

So long as one can add together '7' and '5', carry the '1', and add together '6', '1'
', and the carried over '1'—without regard to the particular place that these columns occupy within the larger addition problem-we can say the relevant competencies are in place. Competence with this method depends on one's disposition to handle any given column of an addition problem in decimal notation, as well as how these basic tasks are combined. For instance, such an agent is disposed to carry numbers from one column to another, to recognize which side of the problem with which to begin one's calculations (e.g., the right side in the right-to-left method), and to recognize what counts as the terminating point of a calculation (e.g., in the right-to-left method, when we run out of numbers to add together on the left side of the problem).
That the finitude problem is avoided depends on emphasizing that meaning is fixed by an agent's factorizable dispositions left unthreatened by the meaning sceptic's attacks. With something as simple as the disposition to consult a look-up table for the addition of single digits, the number of available possibilities does not serve the meaning sceptic's purposes. After all, the finitude problem is motivated by raising possible uses of a term beyond one's finite capabilities; however, on the present approach, the relevant possibilities appear constrained to dispositions to use a completely surveyable look-up ta-ble. We can appeal to these dispositions as the metaphorical building blocks (hence "factorizable") from which any application of a term is constituted; the determinacy enjoyed by our factorizable dispositions is transferred to more complex configurations of those dispositions.
A similar reply to the finitude problem is offered by Blackburn, who suggests that one's intending to mean addition by '†' is established by the fact that, for a question such as 'x+y=?:
The answer I would accept is the one that would be given by reiterating procedures I am disposed to use a number of times....
The equation would be: By '+', I mean that function F, that accords with my extended dispositions if and only if (i) it is the answer 1 am disposed to give and retain after investigation, or (ii) it is the answer I would accept if I repeated a number of times procedures I am disposed to use, this being independent of whether I am disposed to repeat those procedures that number of times. (1984, 289-290)
We might read Blackburn's description of one's extended dispositions as relying on a distinction between one's disposition to use a procedure and the opportunities to manifest that disposition at different times and in different numbers of repetitions.(This interpretation is similar to the one given by Jussi Haukioja . Blackburn's position, so understood, resembles somewhat the account provided by Martin and Heil, who argue that a disposition should not be confused with the opportunities for its manifestation; though a being might possess a disposition which is finitely manifestable, this does not mean that the disposition itself is finite.) The indefinitely many applications of a term derive, in part, from the indefinitely many occasions for manifesting the relevant dispositions. As such, the emphasis on one's extended dispositions, along with the fact that there are indefinitely many situations in which they might manifest, is meant to show that one's finite dispositions do not engender the finitude problem, as Kripke insists. Much as for Tennant's account, Blackburn maintains that the dispositions to complete simple tasks which actual agents possess properly understood-provide the basis for avoiding the traditional form of the finitude problem. (While the discussion has been restricted to examples of logical and mathematical terms, it is worth considering if these solutions apply to any sort of term. Settling the matter depends on the details of the positions. Tennant (1997) is well placed to provide a general account, for he applies his point about factorizable dispositions to the rules operative in any fragment of a proof, and argues that such rules provide the basis for a general account of meaning. Whether Blackburn's approach (1984) can be generalized to any sort of term has not been demonstrated. However, there is no obvious obstacle to doing so. But if the account fails to apply to every sort of expression, Blackburn's account is not alone, for as Mark Sprevak observes (2008, 285-6), many notable solutions to meaning scepticism also apply only to restricted classes of expressions.) are factorizable, it is doubtful (given our finite limits) that we possess the latter dispositions to the extent required to fix what we mean by our words.
In order to state the combination problem for the case of addition, first consider the sorts of dispositions targeted. When using the right-to-left method of adding, one should (for instance) handle each column in the same fashion, moving from one column to the next left adjacent column in the fashion prescribed by the method. One should start with the right-most column first, and one may not whimsically jump around from column-to-column.
Call these sorts of dispositions combinatory dispositions. Now consider an addition problem involving too many columns to be solved in one's lifetime a case involving many iterations of the same combinatory dispositions. Even if we are disposed to provide the relevant sum for each column handled, and then continue to the left adjacent column, we have our limits: we can only complete the same simple task in a particular order so many times. This proves problematic because adding requires handing columns in a particular order; and so our inability to handle each column in the appropriate order invites indeterminacy regarding our use of '†'.
Keeping with the emphasis on factorizable dispositions, it is tempting to say that we possess the same disposition to move from the tenth column to the eleventh column of an addition problem as we do moving from the one-trillionth column of an addition problem. This temptation should be resisted, though, as such a picture remains insensitive to the fact that, as adders, we ought to proceed in a particular order a fact that surely affects how we characterize the relevant dispositions. To better see this, imagine the difficulties one would face trying to coordinate one'
's activities (producing sums
within columns) when faced with solving an addition problem involving, say, ten columns, were one's attention to wander from moment-to-moment and one possessed next to no working memory. The result would be someone who is arithmetically adrift: though perhaps capable of producing the sum for the numbers in any given column, such an unfortunate figure would have no assurance of coordinating one's activities in the manner of adding. By magnifying that situation to the case of an addition problem involving an enormous number of columns, the claim that we possess the required combinatory dispositions for any given column in any given addition problem becomes highly dubious. So, contrary to Tennant's insistence that competence with addition involves the disposition to handle any arbitrary column of an addition problem, competence with addition involves the disposition to handle columns in a particular order. Despite possessing the relevant factorizable dispositions, then, our finite limits block possessing them for any given column in the order required by addition. Hence, the meaning sceptic gains a new foothold. The second problem facing the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach is what will be called the input problem. The problem is that there are terms whose applications cannot be broken down into tasks involving manageable inputs of the sort required by the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach.
This concern does not arise for every term. For the approach's favored case of addition, the sorts of factorizable dispositions to which Tennant and Cogburn appeal are well-suited (combination problem, aside). The same cannot be said, however, for the factorizable dispositions fixing that, by the word
'and', we mean the conjunction operator found in a natural deduction sys-tem.? To help see this, suppose that one's grasp of conjunction is determined by one's grasp of the corresponding introduction rule ("From a sentence p and a sentence q, we may infer p and q") and elimination rule ("From a sentence p and q, we may infer p, as well as q"). Notice also that the set of proofs featuring those rules is infinite, that the proofs themselves can be of any finite length, and that those proofs get larger (in two dimensions) as the sentences themselves get longer. This proves problematic because the use of an introduction or elimination rule on some enormously long conjunction involves at least one enormously long conjunct, and there is no way to factor out anything sufficiently small for a finite agent like us to manage. That is, there are enormously long sentences for which we lack the memory, lifespan, etc. needed in order to conjoin it with any other sentence in the manner of the conjunction introduction rule; and for a conjunction including an enormously long conjunct, we lack the memory, lifespan, etc. required to apply the elimination rule. So, appealing to an agent's dispositions to complete simple tasks fails to ground any given use of the word 'and'. While there is clearly a procedure in place for deciding whether those rules have been applied correctly or incorrectly, the problem is that our finite dispositions cannot determine that we use that procedure since not every application It is natural to choose operators in a natural deduction system, given Tennant's project of taking Gentzen-style introduction and elimination rules as the basis for a general account of meaning. If one's position on the meaning of logical operators prohibits a proof-theoretic treatment, though, other terms are surely available to illustrate the point. of that procedure involves inputs of a size that agents like us can handle.
Therefore, the meaning sceptic gains yet another foothold. That the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach, unadorned, succumbs to the combination problem and the input problem is troubling because the position expresses an insight worth preserving: that an agent's competence with terms is grounded in dispositions to complete feasible tasks. In §5.1, a seemingly natural attempt to save the position one invoking idealizing models is entertained and ultimately rejected. And starting in §5.2, a more promising solution is offered: by invoking abstracting models, we can (on principled grounds) ignore the traits responsible for an agent's finite limits. Consider the following reply to the combination problem and the input prob-lem, couched in terms of the Tennant-Cogburn position. Though this brand of semantic dispositionalist grounds the meanings of one's words by appeal to an ordinary agent's factorizable dispositions to complete simple tasks, so the reply goes, a certain amount of idealization is also required. Idealizing models impute to a system some trait that it does not actually possess, and in the case of a finite agent, we should expect to idealize away from those traits responsible for her finite limits? Applied to the combination problem, though an actual agent does not have the traits responsible for possessing all of the combinatory dispositions indicative of adding, an idealized version of the agent, with an unlimited lifespan, memory, and attention span is not similarly hampered. And as for the input problem, while an actual (finite) *Tennant does, in fact, make use of idealizations in a related context (1997, 143-150).
He does not, however, bring it directly to bear on the problem of immediate interest.
*In a certain respect, this approach, employed in reaction to the finitude problem, fits well with the practices of linguists. As Chomsky puts it, "Linguistic theory is concerned primarily with an ideal speaker-listener... who knows her language perfectly and is unaffected by such grammatically irrelevant conditions as memory conditions, distractions, shifts of attention and interest, and errors." (1965, 3). Though not the immediate aim of this article, it is worth entertaining how the case made in this article might impact the starting point for linguistics. To that end, see also Cogburn's (2004) reassessment of the significance of behavioral dispositions for current debates in linguistics. agent cannot ever hope to handle enormous inputs involved in the applications of some terms, the same need not be said for an appropriately idealized version of the agent.
These replies suffer, however, from the same fatal flaw as any appeal to idealizing models on behalf of the semantic dispositionalist, what will be called the multiplicity problem. The traditional form of the concern is that there are multiple ways to idealize the traits of an actual agent, and the only way to privilege one of those idealized versions as the one that fixes what the actual agent means by her words is to assume that which we aim to establish: namely, that she intends addition (rather than quaddition) by '†'. Hence, the semantic dispositionalist's appeal to idealizations is viciously circular. (See Kripke and Kusch for related formulations of this objection to the use of idealizations.)
Since the multiplicity problem applies to any given trait, it is plain that the situation is no different when idealizing those traits that limit one's ability to combine simple tasks and those traits that limit one's ability to handle inputs because of their size. As such, an appeal to idealizing models does not aid this brand of semantic dispositionalism in answering either the combination problem or the input problem. 

In the next several sections, an alternative reply to the combination problem and the input problem is advanced, building on the case that Jones and 1 made for the use of abstracting models in defense of semantic dispositionalism (Podlaskowski and Jones, 2012).
To strike the principal contrast between abstracting and idealizing mod-els, consider first the distinction made by Frederick Suppe (1989) between physical parameters and physical quantities: whereas physical parameters are kinds of traits that entities or objects might possess (e.g., mass), physical quantities are amounts of physical parameters (e.g., 412 grams of mass). (Similar distinctions between idealizing and abstracting are prominent in the literature, including those provided by Cartwright, Chakravartty, Ducheyne, Jones, Liu, and Suppe) Against this backdrop, abstracting from a physical system is understood, for some physical parameter, as not assigning it any physical quantity whatsoever (or, equivalently, not including the parameter in the model at all)-in short, to ignore the parameter altogether. For example, an abstraction from an actual pendulum might fail to include mention altogether of the actual temperature of pendulum. The reason for doing so, of course, is that the temperature of the pendulum is irrelevant to its behavior qua pendulum. In contrast, idealizing a physical system is a matter of replacing some physical quantity in that system with a quantity that the system does not actually have. For instance, one way (among many) of idealizing a pendulum is to replace the physical quantity characterizing the finite extension of its bob with a value of zero. In short, what distinguishes abstracting from idealizing models is how physical quantities are handled
Jones and I have argued that abstracting models better serve the semantic dispositionalist than idealizing models. According to this approach, that an actual (finite) agent means addition by '†' is fixed by appeal to the dispositions (to add) of an abstracted version of the agent who does not suffer from the same finite limits as the actual agent. This approach resembles the use of idealizations insofar as the finitude problem is dodged by appealing to a model (of the agent) who is not similarly limited. The two sorts of models differ, though, in that the problem for invoking idealizations begins with there being too many idealizations from which to choose (the multiplicity problem; but with abstractions, no such problem arises. That is, though there are many physical quantities that can replace the one possessed by an actual agent (in an idealizing model), there is only one way to ignore such a quantity (in an abstracting model). Where the physical parameters are traits responsible for our finite limits, abstracting away from those traits can only be achieved in one way, yielding one model. So, the semantic dispositionalist can avoid the finitude problem by abstracting away from those traits responsible for an agent's finite limits (much as for idealizations), and do so without facing the same charge of circular reasoning.
This is not to say, however, that the abstracted version of an agent possesses all of the same dispositions as the actual agent-just those grounding one's competence with a term (what will be called competence-constituting dispositions). More specifically, Jones and I have invoked a distinction between those traits that contribute to one's competence with a term and those traits that contribute to one's performance in its use. The idea is that, because the appeal of abstracting models is to establish the dispositions in virtue of which an actual agent is competent with a term, only traits relevant to said competence should be included in the model. Since the traits responsible for our finite nature (such as our memory capacities) do not appear to be relevant to our possession of competence-constituting dispositions but rather contribute to an account of our performance in using terms those traits should not be included in the model. As for deciding which traits should be ignored, it is assumed here that the matter is amenable to empirical investigation, where scientists can distinguish in a principled way between traits relevant to one's competence with any given term without presupposing the meaning of any particular one. (Jones and I have argued that, while idealizations have been criticized for how they model traits, a parallel criticism does not arise for settling which traits to include a model. For the use of abstractions, concerns about indeterminacy arise neither for saying how to model a trait nor saying which traits to include in a model. Also see our discussion of choosing which traits to include in the model, based on empirical grounds.) The use of abstracting models makes for a natural fit with the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach, especially given that such an approach also focuses on those dispositions relevant to one's competence with words. (Tennant invokes a distinction between competence and performance using the nature of computation as his principal guide. But while his position on factoriz-able dispositions is compatible with invoking abstractions, it remains to be established that abstractions prove compatible with Tennant's full-fledged (semantic anti-realist) position.
For present purposes, we may remain agnostic on the matter.) On such a merged view, what is important for fixing that an actual agent means addition by '+' is there being an abstracted version of the agent who possesses the same factorizable competence-constituting dispositions as the actual agent. As for the traits responsible for the special cases of the finitude problem (addressed in more detail in §5.3 and §5.4), the corresponding physical parameters are not assigned quantities we ignore them, since they are irrelevant to one's competence with words. Notice, though, that abstracting away from traits relevant only to one's performance in using a term (such as memory capacity) does not entail that the abstracted agent does not possess those traits altogether. Failure to appreciate this point rests on a confusion between abstractions and idealiza-tions: ignoring some physical quantity is not the same thing as idealizing and hence) replacing the value assigned to the parameter with a quantity of zero (or any other quantity, for that matter). For example, classical mechanical methods of planetary motion ignore traits such as the particular temperatures of planets, because one's understanding of the system does not require this additional information-but in doing so, no supposition is made that planets fail to have any temperatures whatsoever. Similarly, rather than assign to the physical parameter of memory capacity a particular quantity that the actual agent does not possess (as one would in an idealization), an abstraction does not include any value whatsoever. Another (perhaps less contentious) way to think about this is that, by not assigning a quantity to such traits, we are abstracting away from the limits of those traits. Either way, the abstracting model, in effect, provides a sense for what competence-constituting dispositions an agent possesses.
In the next two sections, it is demonstrated how abstracting models feature in replies to the combination problem and input problem. Recall the combination problem: our finite limits block our possessing combinatory dispositions to the extent required to fix what we mean by our words.
Dispelling this concern requires attending to the traits responsible for own combinatory dispositions and how those dispositions fare in an abstracting model. What the actual agent and the abstracted version have in common are the traits relevant to their (factorizable) competence-constituting dispo-sitions, which includes the combinatory ones; where they differ is that, in the model, the traits irrelevant to those dispositions are ignored. Moreover, the traits responsible for the limits on competence-constituting dispositions traits such as memory capacity and attention span—are most likely irrelevant to semantic competence (as suggested in §5.2). As such, those traits deserve to be ignored in the model of an agent; and so, in the model, the limits associated with those traits do not affect the competence-constituting dispositions of the abstracted version of an agent. Hence, the dispositions including the combinatory variety of the abstracted version of an agent are not limited (by irrelevant and finite traits) so as to invite the combination problem.
That the agent in the model possesses the combinatory dispositions indicative of addition-instead of some quaddition-like counterpart, credited to the ingenuity of the reader-is settled by materials already in place. (The mention of quaddition-like possibilities here is reminiscent of the concern raised for fixing our meaning-constituting dispositions by appeal to those possessed by a machine program). The account provided here for why agents are disposed to add equally applies to this other objection.) Key to establishing that the agent in the model (and by association, the actual agent) is disposed to add is that the relevant combinatory dispositions are factorizable, just like dispositions to produce a sum within any given column of an addition problem. As such, the relevant combinatory dispositions constitute the basic sorts of coordinating tasks between columns in the order indicative of addition. Accordingly, the agent in the model (for whom the limits of the actual agent are ignored) is disposed to act in the same way within any given column and in the same way (and order) moving from column-to-column. That is, for an agent without limits, the specified factorizable dispositions yield the set of dispositions indicative of addition.
To Blackburn's position, Kusch raises an objection that resembles the
combination problem:

Blackburn's argument makes the questionable assumption that performing a calculation again and again will inevitably push me towards the right result. Alas, there is no inevitability here at all.
It could well be the case that the reliability of the result decreases as I check my result repeatedly. 

This objection takes a broader swipe at Blackburn's position than just his reply to the finitude problem. It also targets Blackburn's reply to the complaint that semantic dispositionalism cannot account for the possibility of error provides an interesting defense of a Blackburn-style approach to this charge that semantic dispositionalism cannot accommodate the possibility of an agent making mistakes.) For present purposes, though, the focus remains on the finitude problem. Just as with the combination problem, invoking abstracting models proves helpful. For even though an actual agent might exhibit different dispositions as she repeatedly manipulates the same symbols (as Kusch suggests), the abstracted version of an agent-for whom we have ignored the limit on traits such as continuous attention span does not obviously suffer from a similar shift in dispositions. This is because the traits responsible for such a shift (in Kusch's example) just happen to be those ignored in the model (for reasons cited in §5.2, above). After all, the traits to which Kusch alludes (in his objection to Blackburn's position) are those which are responsible for agents like us possessing finite dispositions the same traits that motivate the finitude problem. In short, for an abstracted version of an agent, there is no obvious concern that she might possess different dispositions depending on the number of times that she manipulates a symbol. Recall the input problem: there are terms (such as 'and') for which some (or perhaps many) applications cannot be broken down into tasks involving manageable inputs of the sort required by the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach. Much as for the combination problem, invoking abstracting models here proves to be invaluable. In the model of an agent, we ignore those physical parameters of the actual agent that impose a restriction on the size of the inputs involved in the application of any given term. The rationale for doing so is that the traits motivating the input problem, like other traits motivating the finitude problem (and its variations), are irrelevant to one's competence with a term and, therefore, deserve to be ignored in the model.
To illustrate this point, consider again the introduction and eliminations rules for the conjunction operator and how the relevant traits fare in an abstracting model. In the model, we are not imputing to an agent the disposition to handle conjuncts of enormous length (as we might in an idealizing model). Instead, those traits pertaining to handling the length of conjuncts (e.g., working memory, attention span) are ignored, since they are irrelevant to one's competence with the introduction and elimination rules. While Tennant insists that we should only expect of an agent to complete any given step of a proof, the appeal to abstracting models makes sense of agents doing so even if those individual steps involve premises too long and not further factorizable. This roughly matches up with the actual practice of completing complicated proofs, in that for such cases, we regard the lengths of the sentences involved to be irrelevant to the meaning of the conjunction operator.
To Tennant's position, Kusch raises an objection that resembles the input
problem: Tennant's answer to the finitude problem is obviously unsatisfac-tory. My dispositions to give sums in reply to plus-queries with non-enormous numbers cannot show that I have dispositions to give sums in reply to plus-queries with enormous numbers. On one reading of this objection, Kusch raises traditional doubts about finite dispositions against Tennant's position. So understood, the objection fails to connect, because Tennant's point is that we should reject the original motivation for the traditional formulation of the problem. But on another reading of Kusch's objection, where the concern resembles the input problem, the objection deserves our attention.
We should expect, much as for the input problem, that Tennant cannot help himself to idealizing models in order to dodge the charge. (Kusch rightly denies Tennant such a move.) However, invoking abstracting models is effective in countering this charge. The charge proceeds from the assumption that we cannot establish one's dispositions involving (e.g.) adding together enormous numbers on the basis of those dispositions to add together non-enormous numbers. But by invoking an abstracting model, the traits responsible for our limited ability to handle large inputs are ignored.
In summary, neither the combination problem nor the input problem is a cause for concern, since the traits responsible for raising those problems are irrelevant to what one means, and therefore deserve to be ignored when constructing the appropriate abstracting model. The resultant position is one according to which what an agent means by a term is established by the factorizable dispositions possessed by the abstracted version of the agent. The original case made for invoking abstracting models was in reaction to the multiplicity problem. (The response to that problem, offered by Jones and I, was briefly rehearsed in §5.2. There is, however, an additional criticism that Kripke raises against invoking idealizations which can be adapted to the use of abstractions one that is presented in §6.1, and for which a reply is supplied in §6.2. Kripke suggests that we do not possess the knowledge required for appreciating what the world (or agents in it) would be like, if an idealizing model (used in defense of semantic dispositionalism) were true. He asks: "How in the world can I tell what would happen if my brain were stuffed with extra brain matter...? ... We have no idea what the results of such experiments would be". As such, there is no clear sense for whether the idealized version of an agent has the same (relevant) dispositions as the actual agent. But if the idealized and actual agent fail to possess the same dispositions (of the relevant sort), there is no good reason to think, for example, that the actual agent means to add rather than quadd in virtue of whatever dispositions the idealized version of the agent possesses. (For significant replies to Kripke's objection, see Fodor, and Pietroski and Rey. See Kusch for a thoughtful response to Fodor's case. And see Kowalenko for an equally thoughtful response to Kusch's case.) Much as for idealizing models, the worry might be raised that we have no genuine sense for what the world (or agents in it) would be like, according to the abstracted model where the traits responsible for our finite capacities are ignored. As such, there is no good reason to conclude that the abstracted version of the agent possesses the same dispositions as the actual agent.
Therefore, the grounds are lacking for the conclusion that the abstracted version of the agent and the actual agent mean the same thing by their words. Call this the ignorance problem for abstractions.(An alternative reading of Kripke's charge (1982, 27) is that the appeal to idealizations is at odds with the expectation that we can settle a priori what we mean by our words. Whether this objection can be answered rests on providing an account of the epistemology of meaning (with, perhaps, an emphasis on introspection) as it pertains to the Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach augmented with the use of abstracting models.
Such an account falls well outside the scope of this essay. Still, if any version of semantic dispositionalism proves compatible with a priori knowledge of what one means by their words, a dual emphasis on factorizable dispositions and abstracting models might show a great deal more promise than other varieties of dispositionalism.) if one's factorizable dispositions depend on possessing a certain set of traits, and both the actual agent and the agent in the model possess those traits, they both possess the corresponding factorizable dispositions. By design, then, the agent in the model and the actual agent share the same factoriz-able dispositions. Since those dispositions fix what one means by a term, the abstracted version and the genuine article mean the same thing by their words. So, contra the ignorance problem, even if we did not know entirely what the world featured in the model would be like, we do have a clear sense for the sorts of meaning-constituting dispositions that would be possessed by the agent in the model. (If more than one abstracting model of the traits relevant to our meaning-constituting dispositions were available, there might still be doubts about the resemblance between an agent and her abstracted counterpart: it would remain indeterminate whether the resemblance holds. But as already argued by Jones and I (and reconstructed in §5.2), abstracting models do not suffer from the multiplicity problem) This response to the ignorance problem for abstractions assumes a great deal about ourselves; establishing the resemblance between an actual agent and her abstracted counterpart requires distinguishing between those traits pertinent to one's competence with a term and those pertinent to one's performance in its use a point regularly stressed in §5.2, §5.3, and §5.4. The concern might be raised, though, that we are not the sorts of beings to which such a distinction can be applied. It might be the case that our brains are structured according to an architecture where the traits pertinent to our using a term cannot be separated from those required for competence with the term. Neural networks serve as an apt example, insofar the limits of memory depend upon the number of nodes and their weights. Ignoring the limits on memory here (in an abstracting model), therefore, requires ignoring some of the features constitutive of the neural network. So, if our brains are best understood solely as a neural network, and if meaning-constituting dispositions should be read-off the dispositions of one's brain, it appears that the sought after distinction between competence and performance cannot be applied There are empirical grounds, however, for applying this distinction to beings like us. To cite one example, Robert Kowalenko draws this conclusion based on a survey of recent empirical research on the topic of mental mathematics (one bearing closely to Kripke's concerns about addi-tion). Essential to his case is research that suggests mental mathematics involves several subsystems whose operation can be isolated from the subsystems responsible for, e.g., memory capacity. Insofar as the disposition to add rests on the interaction between some of the former subsystems, grounds are available for isolating our dispositions to add from other factors such as memory capacity.(Kowalenko's point is made as part of his defense of idealizations from Kripke's assaults. On the basis of our being able to isolate our dispositions to add from other (interfering) factors, he argues that it is reasonable to allow for casual continuity between the dispositions of actual and idealized objects. While this point is easily generalized to the use of other models in scientific practice, it is unclear whether Kowalenko's case for using idealizations avoids the charge of circularity raised by Kripke. While Kowalenko's principal focus is on Kripke's charge involving the fantastical assumptions made by idealizations, Kowalenko's prospect of addressing Kripke's other charge depends on invoking simplicity considerations which have been brought into question elsewhere.  Whether or not Kowalenko's use of simplicity ultimately proves problematic, though, the appeal to abstracting models does not involve making the same sort of move.) To cite another example, Noam Chomsky takes a similar distinction between competence and performance to be "fundamental" to the study of modern linguistics. While Chomsky originally invoked the distinction for his theory of syntax, it has since been adapted to the study of semantics e.g., Cresswell, Larson and Segal, and Chierchia and McConnell-Ginet.  The materials are in place, then, for pinpointing where the proposed coun-terexample (featuring a neural network) goes wrong. Of course, the brain is a biological neural network involving a number of different subsystems belonging to a nervous system. But the sort of neural network advanced in the example, above, fails to include details relevant to understanding the biological system. The original example focuses only on the nodes of the network and their weights, and the resulting dispositions. While such an approach shows promise when solving certain problems in the field of artificial intelligence, the same characterization of a network is too detail deficient to capture many important features of the brain. Unlike the neural networks featured in the original example, empirical research on mental mathematics suggests that we can isolate subsystems such as those grounding working memory from other subsystems grounding one's arithmetical competency.
In short, there are empirical grounds for the conclusion that we are the sorts of beings for whom the distinction between competence and performance can be applied. This, in turn, provides materials needed for answering the ignorance problem as it arises for abstracting models. In summary, the basic shape of a solution to the finitude problem is established here.
The Blackburn-Tennant-Cogburn approach seems to get this
much right: we can only expect of an agent that they be competent with terms on the basis of dispositions to complete feasible tasks. But for all of its appeal, this approach faces two special cases of the finitude problem.
The motivating insight of the position is preserved, though, by invoking abstracting models. The picture presented here the result of fusing the two approaches provides the basic framework for saying how a finite agent can intend a meaningful expression with indefinite (or even infinite) applications, and it does so by permitting itself only naturalistically respectable materials.
Not surprisingly, then, the position passes off settling some details to empirical inquiry; but here the basic materials required to answer the meaning sceptic have been put in place. It remains to supplement the present account so as to avoid other traditional objections to semantic dispositionalism.
